\c 7
\s1 Blessings for obeying the LORD’s commands
\p
\v 1 Moses continued to speak, “When the LORD our God brings you to the land that you will soon enter and rule, He will drive away seven nations that are stronger and more numerous than you. Those seven nations are the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites.
\v 2 The LORD our God has handed them all over to you, so you must kill them all. Don’t make peace agreements with some of them, and don’t pity them.
\v 3 Don’t do mixed marriages with them. Don’t hand over your daughters to marry with their sons. And don’t let your sons marry their daughters.
\v 4 Because they will influence your sons to worship false gods. God will be very angry at you and quickly destroy you if you violate His law.
\v 5 This is what you must do to those nations: Destroy the altars where they sacrifice animals. Destroy also the idol monuments and pillars that they use to worship the Asherah Goddess, and burn all of their idol statues.
\v 6 You must destroy all of those because we are a people made holy by the LORD and for Him, and from among all other nations on earth, we have been chosen by the LORD our God to be His own special posession.
\p
\v 7 “The LORD loves us and chose us not because our numbers are more than other nations, but in fact we are the least in number of all the other nations.
\v 8 The LORD loves us and did what He has promised to our ancestors. That is why the LORD saved us from the power of the Egyptian king and with His mighty power brought us out from there.
\v 9 So, don’t forget that the LORD our God is the only God. He is God who can be trusted because He will do what He promises to us, and He shows his kindness faithfully to all who love Him and obey His commands from generation to generation
\v 10 But He will punish people who hate Him by destroying them. He will not keep putting off taking revenge on them.
\v 11 So, you must earnestly obey and do all of the commands— that is all of the commands and statutes that I give to all of you today.
\p
\v 12 “If we hear these rules and do them faithfully, then the LORD our God will fulfill His official covenant with us and He will always love us, according to His promise to our ancestors.
\v 13 He will love and bless us, along with making our numbers increase. He will bless us with many children, and bless our gardens and fields so that they give abundant wheat, wine, and olive oil harvests. He will also increase our cows and goats. He will give all of these to you in the land that He promised to give to us by vowing to our ancestors.
\v 14 He will bless us more than other nations. No one among you and your descendants will be barren. The same for the livestock you own.
\v 15 The LORD will also protect you from all diseases, so that you do not suffer any of the terrible diseases like those that fell on the Egyptians. But every one who hate you will get those diseases.
\p
\v 16 “In the process of conquering the land of Canaan, you must destroy all of the nations that the LORD God hands over to you. Don’t pity them and don’t worship their false gods. If you do that you will have entered into a trap that will destroy you.
\v 17 Don’t ever think, “The nations in this land are stronger than us, so how can we possibly drive them away?”
\v 18 Don’t be afraid of them! Remember what the LORD our God did to the Egyptian King and all of his people.
\v 19 You have seen for yourselves how the LORD our God lifted up His powerful hand to cause great disasters and various kinds of miracles so that you were freed from their land. So the LORD our God will also do the same to the nations that you now fear.
\v 20 In fact the LORD our God will give a feeling of panic to them,\f + \fr 7:20 give a feeling fo panic to them\ft The meaning of the word ‘tsir’ah’ (צִרְעָה) in the Hebrew language cannot be confirmed. Some translate it with ‘wasp’ or another animal that stings. And if that is the meaning, then the animal is considered a metaphor that illustrates the feeling of panic.\f* so that many of them will run from the face of our soldiers. Some will run and hide, but in the end you will destroy them.
\p
\v 21 “Don’t be afraid of those nations because the LORD our God will be with you. He is a great and amazing God!
\v 22 The LORD our God will drive away those nations little by little. You will not be permitted to destroy them all at once. Because if that happened, then the number of wild beasts in that land would increase so that they would be a danger to you.\x + \xo 7:23 \xt Kel. 23:27-30\x*
\v 23 That is how the LORD our God will help you to defeat our enemies. He will make them very afraid until they are destroyed.
\v 24 He will hand their kings over into your power. You will destroy them, and in fact their names will be forgotten by all humans on this earth. There will be no nation that will be able to oppose you. You will destroy them all.
\p
\v 25 You must burn their idol carvings made of wood. Don’t desire the silver or gold decorations from those statues. Don’t take anything! Those goods are a trap that could destroy you. Taking those things means that you have taken things that are hated by the LORD your God.
\v 26 Do not bring disgusting goods like those into your houses! Those goods have been determined by the LORD your God to be destroyed. So you have to view them as disgusting objects, because the LORD has determined those objects to be destroyed.