\c 7
\s An example to show how believers are freed from the Law
\p
\v 1 Brothers and sisters, especially you Jewish people who are in Rome, I want to remind you of something about the Law. It’s rules are in force only while people are still living.
\v 2 Like a married woman: she must live with her husband as long as her husband is still living. But if her husband dies, she’s free from the rules of marriage that are in the Law.
\v 3 If that woman marries or has a sexual relationship with another man while her husband is still alive, the rules state that she is commiting adultery. If her husband dies, she becomes free from the rules of marriage. So if that woman marries another man after her husband dies, she doesn’t commit adultery.
\p
\v 4 In the same way, Brothers and sisters, because we’re one with the body of Christ, we consider that our old selves have died with Him. In that way, we’re free from our obligation to live according to the Law. And we also consider that we ourselves were united with Him when He was brought back to life from death. It means that we are freed so that our way of life glorifies God.
\v 5 In the past, we humans were weak because we were controlled by our evil bodily desires. Of course, the Law warned us not to sin, but it was that very warning that aroused our desire to break the Law again. For being controlled by that desire, we kept on commiting sins that entrapped us to the death of our spirits and souls.
\v 6 In the past, we were bound to the Law, like the bond of marriage. But now we’ve been released from the Law because we consider ourselves dead. So it’s no longer the bond of the Law that controls us! But now we serve God in a new way according to the Holy Spirit, not in the old way according to written rules.
\s Our struggle with sin
\p
\v 7 There may be some of you who suppose that I'm saying, “The Law isn't good.” That’s not what I mean! But if there had never been a Law, I would never have understood and been aware of my sins. For example, if the Law didn’t say, “You can’t desire the possessions of other people,”\x + \xo 7:7 \xt Ex. 20:17; Deut. 5:21\x* I wouldn’t know that I was wrong when I did that.
\v 8 And the power of sin in my body used that very prohibition to persuade me to desire all kinds of things that aren’t good more and more. But if the prohibition in the Law had never existed, the power of sin in me couldn’t use those prohibitions as a tool to entice me.
\v 9 In the past, before I knew the rules of the Law, I felt that I lived well. But when I studied the rules of the Law, the desire of sin controlled my life more and more,
\v 10 and I felt as if I was dead and separated from God. The Law was actually meant to lead me to eternal life, but on the contrary it brought spiritual death to me.
\v 11 The power of sin in me used the rules of the law to deceive me, and it was as if it killed my spirit and soul.
\p
\v 12 The Law is certainly holy, and its rules are holy, true and good.
\v 13 Does that mean that something good brought spiritual death to me? No! But the power of sin used something good with the result that I died spiritually. That happened so that I would be aware of how evil the power of sin was in me, and that the power of sin used good rules as a tool for evil.
\s Paul speaks as a person who doesn’t yet know Christ
\p
\v 14 So we know that the Law is from God and was given to lead us to spiritual life. But I’m a weak human being. Because of my evil bodily desires, I became a slave of sin.
\v 15 More than that, I don’t understand my own behavior. I don’t do good things even though that’s what I want to do. And I do bad things which I really don’t want to do at all.
\v 16 And if I keep doing the things that I don’t want to do, that means I agree that the Law is good.
\v 17 But actually, it isn’t me who does what’s evil, but it’s the power of sin which lives in me that does it.
\v 18 I know that there’s no power within me to live right according to the Law. That means that I’m not able to live well because of my human weakness. I definitely want to do good, but I can’t.
\v 19 In other words, I want to do good but I don’t do it, and I keep doing the evil things that I don’t like.
\v 20 So if I do what I don’t like, it isn’t actually me who does it but the power of sin that’s in me!
\p
\v 21 So this is the conclusion, even though I want to do good things according to the Law, it's all too easy for me to do evil!
\v 22 My heart is very happy with all the rules in God’s Law.
\v 23 But there’s obviously some other rule that’s working in me. That rule is opposed to God’s rules which my mind likes. The other rule that works in the parts of my body is the power of sin, and it's that power of sin which binds me so that I become a slave to sin.
\v 24-25 So this is my problem, in my mind, I want to carry out all of the rules of the Law that was given by God, but because of my bodily desires, I’m still enslaved to the power of sin.
\p I’m so unfortunate! Who will save me from the power of sin that's within my body and which entraps me into spiritual death? For that reason, I’m very thankful to God because of all that He did for us through our Lord Christ Jesus!