\c 14
\s The special abilities God’s Spirit gives to strengthen the church
\p
\v 1 For that reason, let’s always make love the priority. Then let's really try to receive the special abilities which are given by God’s Spirit, first and foremost the ability to deliver messages received from God's Spirit.
\v 2 I say this because people who have the special ability to speak in another language as led by the Holy Spirit don’t usually communicate anything that can be understood by other people. Through the Holy Spirit they speak to God alone about things that can only be understood by God.
\v 3 But people who deliver messages from God's Spirit can speak to other people in order to encourage them, give motivation and comfort them.
\v 4 People who speak in different languages as led by the Holy Spirit usually only encourage themselves. Whereas a person who delivers messages from the Spirit of God can encourage the whole church.
\p
\v 5 I long for each of you to have the special ability to speak in another language as led by the Holy Spirit. But what I long for even more is that you can deliver messages that are received from God's Spirit. The person who delivers messages like that is needed more in the church than the person who just speaks in another language led by the Spirit. But the ability to speak in other languages has the same value as the ability to deliver messages from God's Spirit if a member of the church has the spiritual ability to translate that language. Because then the church can be encouraged through what is communicated.
\p
\v 6 Brothers and sisters, it’s useless for me to come to you if I only use the special ability to speak in a foreign language that you don’t understand. I can only help you if I give revelation or knowledge from God, or deliver a message that was received from God's Spirit, or teach in a language that you understand.
\v 7 That can be illustrated by a musical instrument, like a flute or guitar. Even though the instrument isn’t like a living being, if it’s played in a careless way the person listening can’t recognize the song that’s being played.
\v 8 In the same way, if the soldier, whose duty is to play the trumpet, doesn’t know how to blow clearly, then other soldiers won’t understand that the sound of his trumpet is the command to prepare for battle.
\v 9 So it’s the same with you who speak in other languages led by the Spirit. If your words can’t be understood, how can your words be useful to the listeners? It’s as if you’re speaking to the wind alone.
\p
\v 10 Of course, there are many languages in the world, and every language is used to communicate meaningful messages to people who use that language.
\v 11 But if I don’t understand someone’s language, then I’m a foreigner to him, and I consider him to be a foreigner too.
\v 12 It’s the same with you too. Because you really long for the special abilities from God’s Spirit, it would be good for you to pray sincerely so that you are given one of the abilities that is most needed to encourage the church.
\p
\v 13 So for the person who has the special ability to speak in a another language as led by the Spirit, he should pray that he’s also given the ability to interpret what he communicates in that language.
\v 14 When I pray in another language as led by the Spirit, it’s just my spirit that prays, while my mind is silent.
\v 15 So I’ve decided to do this, when I pray, I will involve my spirit and my mind. And when I sing praises, I will involve my spirit and my mind.
\v 16 For if you praise God in your spirit the ability to speak in another language, how can the listener who doesn’t understand join in praising God or say “Amen” to your expression of thanks?
\v 17 Even though you thank God in a very good way, yet other people who hear can’t be encouraged.
\p
\v 18 I thank God, because compared to each of you, I use the ability to speak in different languages more often than you.
\v 19 But in church meetings, instead of expressing thousands of words in a language of the Spirit, it would be better that I speak five words that can be understood, so that the listeners are encouraged by my teaching.
\p
\v 20 Brothers and sisters, don’t think about this matter as if you were little children. But concerning evil, yes, become like babies! But in your thinking about this matter you should be adults!
\v 21 We can read about the special ability of speaking in other languages in the Lord’s Word:\f + \fr 14:21 \fk Lord’s Word\ft Literally, “the Law.” In the Greek language, that word is also used in a broader meaning to be the whole Old Testament.\f*
\b
\q1 “By using people who oppose them, who speak in other languages,
\q2 that is foreign tribes,
\q1 I will speak to these hard-headed people of Israel,
\q2 but they still won’t listen to Me.”\x + \xo 14:21 \xt Is. 28:11-12\x*
\b
\m That’s the word of the Lord.
\v 22 And from those words we can see that using the special ability of speaking other languages is more appropriate for people who are hard-headed and don’t want to refuse believe in the Lord, and aren't for people who completely believe. Whereas speaking or teaching something that is received from God's Spirit is very useful for people who already believe,  and not as appropriate for those who don’t yet believe.
\v 23 Even so, if there are some people who have just entered a church meeting when you are all speaking in different languages as led by the Holy Spirit, they’ll think you’re crazy, of course.
\v 24 But if you are all delivering messages received from God's Spirit, and a person who doesn’t yet believe or understand enters your meeting, then the things you are delivering will reveal his sins, and he’ll feel judged by everything you say.
\v 25 And the secrets that are in his heart will be revealed. In the end, he’ll kneel and worship God while confessing, “God is really with you.”
\s Church meetings should be orderly in order to encourage each other
\p
\v 26 So Brothers and sisters, here’s the conclusion of all this. When you get together, each of you should be involved according to your special ability, either bring a song, or a lesson, or give a revelation from God, or speak in another language as led by the Holy Spirit, or interpret what was communicated in another language. The goal of all of this has to be to encourage one another.
\v 27 If there are some who are ready to use their spiritual ability in speaking other languages, then only two, or at most three people should be allowed to speak. They should speak one by one, and there must be someone present who can translate what they communicate.
\v 28 If no one has the special ability to translate that other language, then they aren’t allowed to use their ability to speak in other languages in that meeting. Let them use that ability just to speak to themselves and to God.
\p
\v 29 Regarding people with the special ability to deliver messages from God, only two or three of them may speak in one meeting. And the other brothers and sisters should also evaluate what they say.
\v 30 But if God reveals something to one of those present, then the person who is speaking must be quiet, so that God’s message may be communicated in an orderly way.
\v 31 In that way, all of you who have the special ability to deliver messages from God can have the opportunity to do so one by one, so that everyone present can get teaching and be encouraged.
\v 32 For everyone who has the ability to deliver messages from God is able to control himself and wait patiently for the time he can communicate news from God.
\v 33 For God doesn’t want confusion, but that everything we do, based on His leadership, will always proceed calmly.
\p According to what’s done in all the worship services of God’s people,
\v 34 it’s best for women to keep quiet in the worship service. Women aren’t allowed to speak directly because they have to keep respecting and obeying the leadership of their own husbands, like the Law says.
\v 35 If a woman wants to ask something, she should ask her husband at home, because it’s best for a woman not to talk in the worship service.
\p
\v 36 If some of you aren’t happy with my teaching, remember that it wasn’t you who received the teaching from God first, and you aren’t the only ones who became followers of Christ! You should also follow the custom of the churches in other places.
\v 37 If one of you feels that he has the special ability to deliver messages from God, or is filled with God’s Spirit, let him also acknowledge that what I’ve written is the Lord’s command.
\v 38 And if that person doesn’t acknowledge this teaching, it means he doesn’t have the ability to deliver messages from God, and in fact isn’t filled by God’s Spirit!
\p
\v 39 So Brothers and sisters, you should each pray sincerely so that you are given the special ability to deliver messages from God. And don’t forbid another brother in the faith to use his special ability to speak in aother language as led by the Holy Spirit.
\v 40 But everything must be done in a good and orderly way.