\c 29
\s1 The preparation for the ordination of Aaron and his sons as priests
\p
\v 1 The LORD said to Moses, “Aaron and his sons must be ordained as priests so that they can serve Me as prests. for the ceremony of ordination, prepare these things: A young male calf and two male sheep. The three must have no bodily defects.
\v 2 Make three kinds of unleavened bread from the finest wheat flour, that is bread that doesn't contain olive oil, bread that contains olive oil, and thin dry bread that is spread with olive oil after it is baked.
\v 3 Place all the bread in a basket, and offer it to Me together with the young male calf and the two male sheep.
\p
\v 4 “Then bring Aaron and his children in front of the door of My tent and do the ceremony of cleansing for them. In that ceremony you have to wash each of them with water.
\v 5 Then take the clothing, that is the robe, the long robe, the ephod and the breast cover. Put all of them on Aaron, and tie the waist sash to the ephod that he is wearing.
\v 6 Put the turban on his head and attach the gold medal with the engraving, "Separated especially for the LORD; on that turban.
\v 7 After that anoint him by pouring the anointing oil on his head.
\v 8 Then order his sons to come close and put the long shirts that have been prepared on them.
\v 9 Tie the waist sashes and headbands on each of them.”
\s1 The ceremony for ordaining Aaron and his sons
\p “The following is the statute regarding the procedures for ordaining Aaron and his sons, and this ceremony will be done through the generations for each of their descendants who will serve me as a priest:
\v 10-11 Bring the male calf to the front gateway of My tent, then order Aaron and his sons to place their hands on the head of that calf. Slaughter that calf in my presence, at that place.
\v 12 Take some of the male calf's blood, then rub it on the horns of the altar with your finger. The rest of the blood you must pour at the bottom of the altar.
\v 13 After that take all of the fat that covered the stomach contents, liver and two kidneys with their fat. Burn them all on top of the altar as an offering to Me.
\v 14 But the meat, skin and intestines, you have to burn entirely outside the camp. That is the sacrifice to erase sins.
\p
\v 15 “Then take one of the two male sheep, and tell Aaron and his children to put their hands over the head of that male sheep.
\v 16 Then, slaughter that male sheep, take the blood and pour it on the four sides of the altar.
\v 17 Cut the whole of itinto several parts and wash all the inner parts and the feet. Then put all of it next to the head and the other body parts.
\v 18 Burn all of it on the altar. That is the burnt offering that the fragrance is pleasing to Me.
\v 19 “Then take the other male sheep, which is set aside for the ordaining of them. Tell Aaron and his children to put their hands on top of that sheep.
\v 20 Then slaughter that sheep. Take a little bit of the blood and smear it on Aaron’s and each of his children's right ear, and also on the thumb of their right hand and the thumb of their right feet. The remaining of the blood must be poured on the four sides of the altar.
\v 21 Take a little bit of blood from the altar and mix it with anointing oil. Then sprinkle it on Aaron and his children, along with their clothes. It is in this way that they and their clothes are made holy on behalf of minisry to Me.
\v 22 “Then take the fat from the male sheep, the fat that covers the tail part, and the fat that covers the organs. Take also the best part from the liver, both the kidneys with the fat that covers them, and also the right thigh, because this lamb is for the ordination. Place all of that on the altar.
\v 23 Then take the bread that does not contain olive oil, bread that contains olive oil, and dry thin bread that is spread with olive oil after it is grilled from the bread basket that is placed before Me.
\v 24 You must put all of this into Aaron’s and his children’s hands, and command them to lift them up high as a special offering to Me.
\v 25 Then, take all the bread back, and burn it on the altar along with the burnt offering. The fragrance when that is burned will please Me.
\v 26 Then take the breast of the male sheep that is used to ordain Aaron as priest, and lift it up high as a special offering to Me. Moses, this is the part that you can eat.
\v 27 “Separate the parts that become Aaron’s and his children’s, which are the breast and thigh of the sheep that was used to ordain them, which is lifted high as a special offering.
\v 28 From now onwards, every time the people of Israel offer sacrifice for giving thanks for peace with Me, this part must be separated for Aaron and his descendants. The Israelites must offer this part to Me by giving it to them.
\v 29 Aaron’s clothing, which have been set apart for ministry for Me, will become the property of his descendants and one day they will wear this clothing when they are annointed and ordained.
\v 30 Aaron’s son, who will replace his father, must wear these clothes for seven days when he enters the Holy Place at My tent to perform his various tasks of a priest accrding to My statutes.
\v 31 “Take all the parts of the meat that are set apart for you(pl) to eat from the male sheep for the ordination, and boil the meat in a holy place.
\v 32 The meat of this sheep with the bread inside the basket is to be eaten at the entrance of the My tent.
\v 33 They alone will eat the meat and bread that is used to erase their sins and set them apart for Me at their ordination ceremony. Other people may not eat those, because this food is holy and set apart for the ordination ceremony.
\v 34 If the next day there are still meat or bread remaining, the remaining must be burnt. Left over food may not be eaten by anyone, because it is holy and set apart for the ordination.
\v 35 “All of these steps must be repeated every day during the seven days of the ordination ceremony of Aaron and his sons, exactly as I have ordereded.
\v 36 Every day for those seven days, offer a young male cow to erase their sins. And through that sacrifice, the altar for sacrificing is also made holy. Afterward, every day for those seven days, you must smear anointing oil on each of its horns, as a sign that it is set apart for service for Me.
\v 37 This ceremony must be repeated for seven days, so that the altar becomes very holy on behalf of service for Me, so that anything that touches that altar must be considered holy.
\v 38 “This is what must be offered every day over the altar, that is, two young one-year old male sheep.
\v 39 Offer one in the morning and the other in the evening.
\v 40 Along with the first lamb offering, also offer two liters of the best wheat flour that is mixed with one liter of the best olive oil. And pour one liter of wine as a wine offering.
\v 41 Offer the second lamb to Me in the evening along with grains offering and wine offering with the same amount as what was done in the morning. The fragrance of this offering is pleasing to Me.
\v 42 “From now and for generations to come, those two daily sacrifices will be made for the people of Israel every day at the gateway that is in front of My tent. because it is there that I will meet with My people and speak to you, Moses or your replacement.
\v 43 There I will meet the Israelites, and that place will become holy because of My glory.
\v 44 I will consecrate My tent and its altar. i will consecrate Aaron and his children, so that they can work as priests.
\v 45 I will live among the people of Israel, and I will become their God.
\v 46 They will know that I am LORD their God who brought them out of Egypt, that I can live among them. I am the LORD their God.