\c 26
\s1 The Lord’s Tent
\s2 Roof
\p
\v 1 The LORD said to Moses, “This is how to make the roof of My Tent. The lowest layer will be made from ten sheets of fine linen cloth that have been woven with thread of red, blue, and purple. That weaving will make a pattern of guard angels.
\v 2 The measurement of each sheet of cloth has to be the same, which is 13 meters long and 1.8 meters wide.
\v 3 From the ten sheets of cloth, make two sets which each consist of five sheets,which will be joined on their long side. Each of the two sets will become a unit with the length of 13 meters by 9 meters.
\v 4-5 Along the the length of each long side, make fifty clasp holes from blue chord. Every clasp hole on one sheet must be opposite a clasp hole on the sheet that will be joined to it.
\v 6 To join every clasp hole on that set of sheets of cloth make fifty clasps from gold. The two sets of cloth will be joined with the gold clasps so that the roof of My tent becomes one unit.
\v 7-8 For the second layer for the roof of My tent, make eleven sheets of fabric from goat's hair. Each sheet has to have the same measurement, which is 14 meters long and 1,8 meters wide.
\v 9 On each long side, make fifty clasp holes. Each clasp hole must line up with those on the one that will be joined to it. From the eleven sheets of cloth make two sets. Using clasps, unite five sheets of cloth to become one set/chain, and six sheets of other cloth to become one set. The sixth sheet of the cloth will be folded double on top of the front part of the tent.
\v 10-11 Along the the length of each long side, make fifty clasp holes. prepare fifty clasps from bronze. Every clasp hole on one sheet must be opposite a clasp hole on the sheet that will be joined to it.
\v 12 The set of goat-hair sheets is almost one meter longer than the linen roof sheets. Let this excess part hang from the back of the tent to cover the back side.
\v 13 This covering cloth is also wider by half a meter than the linen covering fabric on the right and left sides. Let this excess part hang to cover both sides of the My tent.
\v 14 On top of the fabric coverings, put on a covering which is made of rams skins that are dyed/colored red. And on top of that again put on a covering leather that does not absorb water.
\s2 Frames for supporting the roof of the LORD’s tent
\p
\v 15 “For supporting the roof of My tent, make frames that are of acacia wood.
\v 16 Each frame's height will be 4 meters and width is 66 centimeters.
\v 17-22 All of these frames will be made in the same way, with two pegs that extend from below at the left and right ends of each frame. Make twenty frames for the south side of the tent, twenty frames for the north side of the tent, and eight for the back side. As a place to hold those frames, every peg will be put in a hole in a holding base that will be made of silver. In total there will be ninty-six bases for the forty-eight frames.
\v 23-25 At the back side of the tent, six frames will be made in the same way as the frames on the two sides. But the two frames for the back corners will be made in a special way. Those two frames will unite the left and right corners, from the bottom to the top, and will be joined at the top end with a gold holding ring made from gold. The eight frames at the back will be joined to sixteen holding bases which will be made from silver, two for every frame.
\v 26 “To make My tent sturdy, make cross bars from acacia wood, which will be used to join across and unify the frames. Five bars will go across the north side of the tent,
\v 27 five bars for the south side, and five shorter ones will go across the back part of the tent, which is on the west.
\v 28 Four of the cross bars will be attached above and below, while the middle cross bar is attached at half the height of the frames, and cross from one end to another end.
\v 29 As a place all the cross bars, make bracelets of gold which be attached to each frame. All the frames and cross bars will be covered with gold.
\p
\v 30 Erect My tent according to the plan that I showed you on top of the mountain.”
\s2 The two rooms inside the LORD’s Tent
\p
\v 31 “To separate the interior of My tent to become two rooms, weave a curtain with a beautiful pattern, looking like guard angels, from fine linen thread of red, blue, purple.
\v 32 That cutain will be hung with gold clasps on four acacia wood posts that are covered with gold. Those posts will stand on holding bases whichewill be made of cast silver.
\v 33-34 The Chest of Promise, complete with its cover, will be placed in the room behind the curtain, which will be called the Most Holy Room. While the room in front of the curtain will be called the Holy Room. Then place the chest's cover on top of the Chest of Promise in the Most Holy Room.
\v 35 On the outside of the curtain, put the table on the north side and the branched lampstand on the southside, facing each other.
\p
\v 36 “For the entrance door of the tent, weave a curtain with a beautiful pattern from linen thread that is colored red, blue, and purple.
\v 37 That curtain will be hung with gold hooks on five acacia wood posts that will be covered with gold. Those posts will stand on five bases cast of bronze."