\c 17
\s Warning about the sacrifice of defective animals
\p
\v 1 "Do not offer cows, goats, or sheep that are defective to the LORD our God, for the LORD regards such offerings with disgust."
\s Punishment for idol worshipers
\p
\v 2-4 "If later in one of the cities that the LORD gives to you there is someone who is accused of committing a crime that violates the LORD's commandments and His covenant with our ancestors - for example, worshiping gods, including the sun, moon, and stars - then you must find out if the accusation is true. If it is true that this person committed the crime in Israel,
\v 5 you must take him out of his city and stone him to death.
\p
\v 6 "A person can only be sentenced to death if the violation is proven based on the testimony of two or three witnesses. It is prohibited to impose a death sentence on the testimony of just one person.
\v 7 The witnesses must be the first to stone the offender, followed by other people present. In this way, you will eradicate evil from among the Israelites."
\s Judging difficult cases
\p
\v 8-9 “If there is a case that is too difficult for the judges in your city to resolve, then submit it to the priests and chief judges who serve in the city where the LORD's tabernacle is located. They will decide the difficult cases for you. Some examples of difficult cases are distinguishing sentences for various kinds of murder cases, seizure of various kinds of rights of property or authority, or punishments for various kinds of acts of violence.
\v 10 Then everyone involved in the case must properly carry out the decisions they receive there.
\v 11 After the priests and judges have given a decision about your case based upon the law of the LORD, each one of you must carry it out. Don't deviate from the final decision they give you.
\v 12-13 Anyone who arrogantly disobeys the priest or judge who serves before the LORD must be put to death. Then all the people will hear and be afraid to act arrogantly like that. In this way you will eradicate such evil from among the people of Israel."
\s Guide for the king of Israel
\p
\v 14 "After you take control and settle in the land that the LORD God will soon hand over to you, perhaps someone will say, 'Let us appoint a king to rule us, like the other nations around us.'
\v 15 You may appoint a king, but it must be a person designated by the LORD, and he must be from the descendants of Israel, not from another nation.
\p
\v 16 "After that person becomes king, he must not gather many horses for his army. He may not send an entourage to Egypt to buy horses, because the LORD has commanded, 'You must not go back to that land again.'
\v 17 It is forbidden for a king to have multiple wives, so that his wife does not influence him to turn from the LORD. The king also may not collect a lot of gold and silver.
\v 18 "When someone becomes king, he must copy this book of the law for himself, according to the guidance of the priests from the tribe of Levi.
\v 19 The book must always be near him, and every day of his life he must read it, so that he may learn to fear and honor the LORD and keep all these laws and statutes.
\v 20 In this way, the king will not become arrogant and consider himself better than his fellow countrymen, and will not deviate from these laws in any way. That way he and his descendants may continue to lead the nation of Israel."