\c 2
\s The work of Paul in Thessalonica
\p
\v 1 Brothers and sisters, you already know how it turned out that our visit to you in Thessalonica wasn’t for nothing.
\v 2 You also know that before we came, we were insulted and persecuted when we told the Good News from God in Philippi. Inspite of that, God made us remain bold in telling the same Good News to you, even though there were also people in your city who strongly opposed us.
\v 3 So you can see that we urged you to believe that Good News, not for false or impure reasons and not to deceive you either.
\v 4 But instead, we spoke as people who were considered worthy by God and entrusted as His messengers. So we didn’t speak to please the hearts of men, but to please the heart of God who tests what’s in each of our hearts.
\v 5 You’ve seen, and God is also a witness, that this is true. We never tried to influence you with sweet talk, and we never taught you for the purpose of making money.
\v 6 And we also never served in order to seek praise from man, either from you or from other people.
\p
\v 7 Of course, as apostles of Christ, we have the right to order you to show us respect. But we didn’t want to burden you. Instead when we were in your midst, we treated you with gentleness,\f + \fr 2:7 \fk instead... gentleness \ft In several Greek copies it says, “but we were like babies.”\f* just like a mother caring for her children.
\v 8 We dearly loved you, to the point that we weren’t just willing to share the Good News from God, but we even fully surrendered ourselves to help you.
\v 9 Brothers and sisters, surely you still remember how we worked hard day and night to meet our own needs. We did that so that we wouldn’t become a burden to you while we were with you.
\v 10 You are witnesses, and so is God Himself, that we lived holy, righteously and without fault before you who believe in Christ.
\v 11 You know that we lived among all of you just like a father lives with his own children,
\v 12 that is advising, encouraging and urging you to live well in the sight of God who has called you to enter His kingdom and enjoy His glory.
\p
\v 13 When you heard the news of salvation from us, you each received it as the Word of God, and not as the words of man. This has also made us thank God without stopping! And that response of yours was totally correct, for the Word of God lives and is powerful in each of us who believe in Christ.
\v 14 Brothers and sisters, you’ve proven to be people who believe because you were forced to follow the example of your brothers and sisters in Judea, that is those who are one with Christ Jesus along with you. The members of the church in Judea were really tortured by the Jews who don’t believe, just as you also experienced from your own people group.
\v 15 Those Jews had already killed the prophets and the Lord Jesus, then they persecuted our brothers and sisters to the point that some were forced to run away from Judea. They hurt the heart of God and opposed everyone.
\v 16 The way they opposed everyone was by trying to stop us from telling the news of salvation to you who aren’t Jews. They didn’t want you to be saved! In that way, they kept adding to their sin way beyond the limit. And because of that, God has already begun to pour out His wrath on them.
\s Paul longs to return to visit Thessalonica
\p
\v 17 Brothers and sisters, we are separated from you for a short time in a physical way, which was truly forced on us. But our hearts desire has always been to return to you again. So because we really miss you, we have really tried many times to be able to visit you again.
\v 18 We long to return. I, Paul especially, have tried many times to be able to visit you. But the devil keeps preventing us.
\v 19 Don’t be surprised that we really long to visit you because you are our pride and joy! That is what we will feel when our Lord Christ Jesus returns. At that moment we will feel very proud to stand before Him with you who are the result of our ministry.
\v 20 You truly are our pride and joy!