\c 4
\s1 The Philistines take the Chest of Promise
\p
\v 1 On that time also happened  war among the nation of Israel and the Philistines. The troops of Israel camped in Ebenezer, while the Philistines troops camped in Aphek.
\v 2  When the Philistines troops attacked Israel troops and the battle spread out in that region, Israel was defeated by them. The Philistine soldiers killed about four thousand Israelite soldiers of Israel on the battle field.
\v 3 at the moment the soldiers returned to the camp, the elders of the nation of Israel asked, "Why did the LORD allow the nation of the Philistines defeat us today? Let us bring the LORD's Chest of Promise from Shiloh. if that chest was with us, certainly we were saved from the hands of our enemy.
\v 4 Because of that, some soldiers were sent to Shiloh to take the Chest of Promise of the LORD Almighty, who is the God enthroned above the two forms  of guardians angels  in the cover of the Chest. the two  sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas came with them bringing the LORD's Chest of Promise to the camp.
\v 5 When the LORD's Chest of Promise arrived in the camp, all of the troops of Israel shouted so loudly that the ground shook.
\v 6 The Philistine troops heard the shouts and said, "Why are loud shouts heard in the camp of Israel?" \f + \fr 4:6 \fk Israel \ft Lihat catatan di Kel. 1:15.\f* Then they hear that the Chest of the LORD already arrived in the camp of Israel.
\v 7-8 When the Philistine troops realized that matter, they became vary afraid and said to each other, ""Wow, unlucky of us! The gods of Israel have come to their camp! A disaster like this has never happened to us! Who of our gods that can release us from the hands of their gods who are so mighty? Their gods were the ones who destroyed the Egyptians with various plagues in the wilderness!
\v 9 But, o people Philistines, let us keep strong and behave like men, or  you will become the slaves of the Israel people like they have become our slaves! Let us behave like men who are valiant and make war!
\p
\v 10 then they fought again even harder, so that the Philistine troops defeated Israel. So many Israel soldiers died. Thirty thousand Israel soldiers were killed, and the soldiers that were saved flee themselves back home.
\v 11 Hophni and Phinehas were killed, and the LORD's Chest of Promise was taken by the Philistines, and the two sons of Eli
\s The Priest Eli dies
\v 12 at that day a soldier from the tribe of Benjamin flee himself from the lines of battle to Shiloh. He had torn clothes and put dust in his head as sign of mourning.
\v 13 When he arrived in Shiloh, Eli was sitting on his chair observing from the side of the road, because he was very worried about the condition of the LORD's Chest of Promise. When that person entered the city to give a report, all the residents begin to mourn.
\v 14-15 Hearing the cry, Eli asked, "What's this commotion?" Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes could no longer see. The man immediately came and informed Eli,
\v 16 "I just succeed flee myself from battle and got here!" Eli asked, "My son, what does happened there?"
\v 17 The carrier of that message said, "we soldiers of Israel ran away from chase of the Philistines troops! Israel experienced a great defeat! Your two children, Hophni and Phinehas already died! The LORD's Chest of Promise was taken away by the Philistines!"
\v 18 When that person mentioned the Chest of Promise, Eli fell backwards from his seat beside the gate door. His neck broke and he died, because he was very old and fat. He had been a judge for the people of Israel for forty years.
\v 19 His daughter-in-law, wife of Phinehas, was far along pregnant and almost to give birth. When she heard the news that the LORD's Chest of Promise had been taken by force by the nation of the Philistines, and her father-in-law along with her husband had died, then she immediately felt labor pain. However  her laboring pain was too heavy for her.
\v 20 When she was almost dying, the woman who helped her to give birth said, "Don't be afraid! You've just birthed a son!" But she didn't answer or pay attention to those words.
\v 21 Phinehas' wife named the child Ichabod, because she said, "The glory of God already is gone from Israel." She said like that because the LORD's Chest of Promise had been taken and because of the death of her father-in-law and her husband.
\v 22 With the last breath, once again she said, "The glory of God is gone from Israel, because the LORD's Chest of Promise has been taken."