\c 1
\p
\v 1 Dear Brothers and sisters in the faith in Thessalonica, that is you who are already one with God the Father and our Lord Christ Jesus:
\p Greetings from Paul, Silas, and Timothy.
\p My prayer is that God our Father will always be kind to each of you and watch over you so that you live calmly under His protection!
\s The example of the church in Thessalonica in fully believing in Christ
\p
\v 2 Each time we remember you in our prayers, we always give thanks to God for all of you.
\v 3 We always especially thank God the Father remembering what you’ve done because you fully believe in Christ and because of your acts of love and also that you really hope in the coming of our Lord Christ Jesus. That hope is what strengthens you so that you can endure suffering.
\p
\v 4 Brothers and sisters whom God loves, we know that He has chosen each of you to become His own possession.
\v 5 For when we came bringing the Good News about Christ, you didn’t receive that news as just ordinary news but as the powerful Word of God. And the Holy Spirit gave full assurance to you that this news is true. Of course you remember how our lives also became a testimony among you that this news is true.
\v 6 And we know that God chose each one of you because you’ve followed our example and the example of the Lord Jesus Himself. I mean that when other people made it difficult for you because you fully believed in Jesus, you still accepted those teachings of ours with joy from the Holy Spirit.
\p
\v 7 In that way, Brothers and sisters, you’ve become examples for all the believers in the provinces of Macedonia and Achaia.
\v 8 For the news about the salvation of the Lord has spread from you not only to those two provinces, but your faith in God has become well-known in every place that we’ve gone. So Silas, Timothy and I don’t need to tell others about you anymore.
\v 9 For they’re the ones who first told us how well you received us when we were with you, Brothers and sisters, and about how you stopped worshiping idols and turned to serve the one God who is the only true and living God.
\v 10 And they also told how you wait for the coming of God’s Son from heaven, that is Jesus, whom He made alive again after death. This Jesus is the one who’ll save us from the wrath of God which will soon be revealed when God punishes the sinners of this world.