\c 4
\s Relationship of Christ’s apostles to the church
\p
\v 1 In that way, you should consider us to be Christ’s servants because God has entrusted us with the task of revealing His plan, which was kept secret from people in the past.
\v 2 And a servant must show that he can truly be trusted.
\v 3 It it's not a problem for me if I’m evaluated by you or by a human court. In fact, I don’t even evaluate myself.
\v 4 In my heart, I don’t feel guilty, but that doesn’t prove that I’m right. Let the Lord be the one who evaluates my service.
\v 5 So I advise you not to evaluate the Lord’s servants before the Lord Himself comes. He’s the one who’ll reveal everything that has been kept secret in darkness, including people’s motives and thoughts. Then God will praise all of His servants who are worthy to receive it.
\p
\v 6 In the previous lesson, Brothers and sisters, I used Apollos and myself as examples for you. I did that so that you can learn this principle, “Obey just what’s written in the Holy Bible.” So I hope that none of you consider any longer that one servant of the Lord is better than another.
\v 7 If you still want to argue, what reason do you have to feel that you're better than other brothers and sisters in the faith? Think of this, every ability that you have is just a gift from the Lord. So if that gift is just because of God’s kindness, don’t brag about it as if you got it because of your own strength!
\p
\v 8 But apparently you, the church of Corinth, already think that you have everything you need! You’re already rich. You’ve become like kings. That opinion arose after we no longer worked among you. Wow, how truly wonderful it would be if you had become kings! That way, we as the apostles who evangelized you might also be considered great people!
\v 9 But in my opinion, God actually has given us apostles the very last place. We’re treated like prisoners of war who’ve been given the death sentence. Then we’ve became a public spectacle before everyone in this world and before angels.
\v 10 We’re considered to be stupid people just because we serve Christ, but you’re still considered to be wise people. We servants of Christ are always considered to be weak, but you feel you’re strong. We’re insulted everywhere, but you’re honored.
\v 11 In fact, even to this moment we often don’t get enough food and drink, and we also don’t have enough clothes. We’re often beaten, and we don’t have a place to stay.
\v 12 We’re forced to work hard with our own hands, and we’re often insulted. But we just bless them in return. And when we’re persecuted we receive it patiently.
\v 13 When we’re slandered, we just respond with gentleness. To this moment, we’re still treated like the garbage of the world, like dirt that’s thrown away.
\p
\v 14 I don’t write these things to shame you but to rebuke you as my children whom I love!
\v 15 For even if could have ten thousand teachers who would teach you about Christ, you wouldn’t have many fathers. I alone became your spiritual father because I was the one who told you the Good News about Christ Jesus.
\v 16 For that reason, I urge you to follow my example.
\v 17 That’s why I sent Timothy to you. We’re both one with the Lord, so he has become like a child whom I love, who very faithfully serves the Lord. He’ll remind you about my way of life and about the way of life that’s appropriate for all of us who are one with Christ Jesus, just like I teach every church.
\p
\v 18 There are obviously people among you who’ve become arrogant and consider themselves to be leaders. That has certainly happened because they think that I’m not going to visit you again.
\v 19 But if the Lord is willing, I’ll come to you soon. And at that time, we’ll see who’s leading with the Lord’s power and who’s just bragging about themselves.
\v 20 For the work of God’s kingdom isn’t just a matter of human talk, but it’s a matter of God given authority!
\v 21 So now it’s up to you alone to choose. Do you want me to come with a whip to control you? Or I can come with an attitude full of love and gentleness if you've begun to obey.