\c 13
\s Warning against idol worship
\p
\v 1 Imagine a situation like this: A person claiming himself to be a prophet, or someone who can predict miraculous things based on his dreams appears among you. Then that person predicts a miracle,
\v 2 and clearly what he predicts comes true. If then he invites you, ‘Let's worship and serve gods’— who are false gods that you do not yet know—
\v 3 do not listen to him! This thing happens because the LORD your GOd is tensting you to know whether you love Him with your whole heart and soul or not.
\v 4 The LORD your God is the only One you must follow and respect, along with obeying His commands and listening to His voice. Serve Him and hold to Him only.
\v 5 But the previously mentioned person who claimed that he was a prophet must be given the death sentence, because he taught you to rebel against the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from slavery. He encouraged you to leave the way of life which the LORD your God commanded. Kill a person like that! Because by doing that you will destroy that evil from among you.
\p
\v 6 “Or imagine that your relative or your son, your daughter, your wife, or your close friend, quietly invites you to worship gods (who are false gods that you do not know or your ancestors did not know,
\v 7 even gods from the nations around you, whether nations that live near you or far from you),
\v 8 do not listen to them or even be influenced by them. And do not conceal their doings because of mercy towards them.
\v 9 That person must be given the death sentence! Your own hands must be the first to give the punishment, then followed by other people.
\v 10 You have to throw stones at him until he dies, because he has already tried to make you turn away from the LORD your God, who has brought you out of slavery in Egypt.
\v 11 The purpose of this punishment is that all Israel will listen and become afraid, so that no one will do the same evil among you.
\p
\v 12 Or imagine that you heard news about residents in one of the cities that the LORD your God will give to you,
\v 13 that there are ungodly people there who have misled the residents of that city by saying, ‘Let us worship gods’ (who are false gods that you do not know),
\v 14 then you have to investigate the matter carefully. If the incident is proven to be true, and the evil doings have definitely happened among your cities,
\v 15 then all of the residents of that city must be killed by sword. According to the investigation, all of the people and wealth in that city has been destined to be destroyed. That means that all of the residents and even all of the livestock must be killed by the sword.
\v 16 Then you must gather the spoils of that city and bring them to the city square, then burn the city and its spoils, so that the city is like a burnt sacrifice to the LORD your God. Let that city be in ruins forever, and it may not be rebuilt.
\v 17 Do not continue to hold any wealth from the spoils that has been destined to be destroyed! Everything must be destroyed, so that the LORD will not be angry with you anymore, and that He will love and pity you. Then He will make your descendants bcome many, according to His covenant to our ancestors.
\v 18 That is why I emphasize: You must obey all the LORD’s commands that I have taught you today and do all that is right according to His view.”