\c 13
\p
\v 1 For example, if I’ve been given the special ability to speak in every human language, in fact even the languages used by angels, but if I don’t love other people, my ability wouldn’t have any meaning at all, just like a bell or a gong which only makes noise.
\v 2 And if I have the special ability to deliver messages that I've received from God, and have the ability of knowledge so that I can understand everything, even God’s secret plans, and I also have the ability of great faith, so that I can command mountains to move, but I don’t love other people, all of my special abilities don’t have any meaning at all!
\v 3 Or if I proudly give all that I own to poor people and even surrender my body as a sacrifice,\f + \fr 13:3 \fk proudly… \ft In old manuscripts there is a slight change in spelling this word so the word has also been translated “to be burned.” The oldest manuscripts use “proudly.”\f* but I don’t love my fellowman, that all has no meaning!
\p
\v 4 The nature of love is patient, generous, not jealous, doesn’t brag about itself and isn’t arrogant.
\v 5 Love doesn’t act rudely, doesn’t seek its own self importance, doesn’t get angry easily, and doesn’t remember the wrongs that others have done.
\v 6 Love doesn’t rejoice when it sees other people doing evil, but rejoices when it sees them doing what is right.
\v 7 Love is strong so that it can endure facing everything. Love is always ready to believe and hope for the best things for other people. Love is always patient in every situation.
\p
\v 8 Love will last forever! But the time will come when the special abilities mentioned won’t be needed anymore, including the abilities to deliver messages from God, to give knowledge, or to speak in another language as led by the Holy Spirit.
\v 9 The special abilities to deliver messages from the Spirit of God, or give knowledge, are certainly useful now, but they can’t convey those things completely.
\v 10 But when Jesus returns later on, our knowledge will become complete, and the special abilities that are now incomplete will be done away because they won’t be needed anymore.
\p
\v 11 When I was still small, I spoke, thought and made plans like a little child. But when I became an adult, I stopped doing the things that are characteristic of children.
\v 12 It’s like that with us too. It’s as if we’re looking into a blurry mirror now, but there’ll come a time later on when we’ll see clearly. My knowledge is incomplete now, but later on I will understand everything in the greatest possible depth, just like God already knows me.
\v 13 So these three things will always be important— faith, hope and love. But the most important of these three things is love!