\c 16
\p
\v 1 “I’ve said all of this to you so that none of you abandons your faith in Me.
\v 2 Because you are My followers you will be driven out of the synagogues of the Jews later on. And the time will come when several of My followers will be killed. In fact by doing that people will think that they are serving God.
\v 3 They’ll do that because they’ve never known Me or the Father.
\v 4 But now I’ve said all of this to each of you so that when it happens you’ll remember that I told you those things ahead of time.
\s The work of the Holy Spirit
\p “I didn’t tell you all of those things from the beginning, because I was still with you.
\v 5 But now I’m returning to the Father who sent Me here, and not even one of you has asked Me, ‘Where are You going?’
\v 6 Because I’ve told you all of this, sadness has filled your hearts.
\v 7 Yet it’s actually better for you if I go to the Father, because if I don’t go, the Helper Spirit won’t come to you. But if I go, I'll send Him to you.
\p
\v 8 When the Helper Spirit comes He’ll make the people of the world realize that their opinions are wrong about these three things: about sin, about how each person can become right in God’s sight and about the final judgment.
\v 9 First about sin: He’ll make them realize that they sin when they don’t truly believe in Me.
\v 10 Second regarding how to become righteous in the sight of God: Because I go to the Father and you won’t see Me again, the Helper Spirit will make them realize that I’ve opened the way so that people can become right in God’s sight.
\v 11 And third regarding the final judgment: He’ll make the people of the world realize that the final judgment will definitely happen because the devil, the ruler of this world, has been punished.
\p
\v 12 “There are still many things I want to tell you but you aren’t able to accept them now.
\v 13 But when the Spirit of Truth comes He will lead you into all true spiritual teaching. For He won’t speak from Himself but He’ll only tell what He hears from My Father. He’ll also tell you things that will happen later on.
\v 14 Through His teaching I will be glorified, because He’ll tell you all that He receives from Me.
\v 15 Everything that the Father owns I own too. That’s why I said that the Helper Spirit will tell you what He receives from Me.”
\s After sadness there is joy
\p
\v 16 “For a little while you won’t see Me, but not long after that you’ll see Me again.”
\p
\v 17 Some of us disciples of His said to each other, “What does He mean when He says, ‘For a little while you won’t see Me, but not long after that you’ll see Me again?’ And what does it mean when He says, ‘I’m going to the Father?’
\v 18 We also asked each other, “How long does He mean by 'for a little while?' We don’t understand.”
\p
\v 19 Jesus knew that we really wanted to ask Him, so He said, “You’re discussing among yourselves about what I meant when I said, ‘For a little while you won’t see Me, but not long after that you’ll see Me again.’
\v 20 What I’m saying is really true. In just a little while you’ll weep and mourn, but the people of the world will be happy. But your mourning will change to joy.
\v 21 “What will shortly happen to you is like what happens to a pregnant woman when the time has come to give birth to her child. She’ll feel pain, but as soon as her child is born she doesn’t remember anymore about the suffering she experienced because she’s so happy that her baby has been born safely into this world.
\v 22 It’s the same with you. You feel sad now. But in just a short time, when you see Me again, you’ll be full of joy. At that time you’ll have forgotten your mourning and no one will be able to keep you from experiencing joy.
\v 23 And on that day none of you will need to ask Me for anything anymore. What I’m telling you is really true. Ask anything of our Father and He’ll give it to you so that I will be glorified.
\v 24 Before now you haven’ asked for anything from the Father in order to glorify Me.\f + \fr 16:24 \fk to glorify Me \ft Literally, “in My name.” According to Jewish culture at the time of Jesus “My name” meant the whole identity of Christ. To ask for something ‘in His name’ wasn’t just to say the name of Jesus, but the intention was to ask for something for the sake of Jesus, or to glorify Him.\f* Ask for things that will glorify Me and you’ll receive them! In that way you’ll really feel joyful”
\s Victory over worldliness
\p
\v 25 “I’ve said all of these things to you by using several analogies. But the time will come when I won’t need to teach you like that. At that time I'll teach you plainly about My Father.
\v 26 As of that day each of you may pray directly to the Father to ask for things which will glorify Me. So I won’t need to give your requests to My Father
\v 27 because He Himself really loves you. The Father loves you because you love Me and you’ve believed that I came from Him.
\v 28 I really did come from the Father and came into this world. But now I will soon leave this world and return to Him again.”
\p
\v 29 Then we said to Him, “It’s true that You’re speaking plainly to us now and aren’t using analogies anymore.
\v 30 Now we know that You know all things and don’t need a someone to ask you about something anymore. In fact You often answer before we ask. For that reason we believe that You came from God.”
\p
\v 31 Then Jesus answered, “So now you believe?
\v 32 Listen, the time will soon come, and you could say that it’s already here, when all of you will desert Me. You’ll run and return to your own homes. But I won’t actually be alone because My Father is always with Me.
\p
\v 33 “I’m saying all of this to each of you who’ve become one with Me so that you can live with a calm heart. In this world, you’ll definitely suffer. But encourage yourselves because I’ve defeated this world.”