\c 10
\s David and the Ammonites
\p
\v 1 After this the king of the Ammonites died and his son, Hanun, took his place.
\v 2 David said, "I will show kindness and loyalty to Hanun, son of Nahash, as his father had shown me." So David sent some of his officials to deliver messages of condolences over the death of Hanun's father.
\p But when they entered the land of the Ammonites,
\v 3 the high officials of the Ammonites said to Hanun, “My Lord the King, don't think that David sent his officials just to convey that he was sorry for the death of your father! No! David sent them here to spy on this city and get the information so that they can attack and take this city!"
\v 4 So King Hanun ordered to arrest the messengers of David, shave off half of their beards, and cut off the bottom of their robes, so that their legs were bare up to the buttocks. Then they were told to go home.
\p
\v 5 When David heard from his messengers that they were treated this way, he ordered people to meet them and say, "Stay in Jericho until your beards grow back, then return to Jerusalem." He conveyed it like that because they had been so humiliated.
\p
\v 6 When the Ammonites realized that they had made David hate them, they hired an army from Syria: 20,000 foot soldiers from the area of Beth Rehob and Zobah, 1,000 soldiers from Maacah, and 12,000 soldiers from the region of Tob.
\v 7 When David heard the news, he ordered Joab and all his army to fight against them.
\v 8 The Ammonites marched and prepared to fight at the gates of their fortress city, while the Syrians from Zobah, Rehob, Tob, and Maacah arranged their own ranks in the field.
\p
\v 9 When Joab saw that his army was surrounded from the front and from behind, he selected some of Israel's best troops and put them into battle against the Syrian army.
\v 10 Meanwhile, Joab chose his younger brother, Abishai, to lead some of Israel's other troops against the Ammonite army.
\v 11 Joab said to Abishai, “If the Syrians begin to defeat my army, send men from your army to rescue us. But if the Ammonites start to defeat your army, I will send men to save you.
\v 12 Be strong! We must fight valiantly for the name of Israel and the cities of our God! May the LORD do what He thinks is best."
\p
\v 13 So Joab and his army went out to battle the Syrians. And the Syrian army fled from them.
\v 14 When the Ammonite army saw that the Syrians were running away, they withdrew from before Abishai's army and entered the gates of their city. When the battle was over, Joab and all the army of Israel returned from the land of Ammon to Jerusalem.
\p
\v 15-16 Thus the Syrians realized that they had been defeated by the Israelites. So King Hadadezer assembled all the Syrian army, including those on the other side of the Euphrates River. They all gathered in the city of Helam under the leadership of Shobach, the commander of Hadadezer's army.
\v 17 When David was informed of this, he gathered all Israel together. He led them across the Jordan River and came to Helam, where the large Syrian army was ready to fight with them.
\v 18 But the Syrian army fled from the presence of Israel. And David's army killed 700 Syrian chariot riders and 40,000 foot soldiers. They also killed Shobach, the commander of the Syrian army.
\v 19 When all the local kings allied with Hadadezer saw that he had been defeated by the Israelites, they made peace with King David and submitted to Israel's rule. And as a result, the Syrians were no longer willing to help the Ammonites.