\c 9
\s1 Samuel meets with Saul
\p
\v 1 Among the people of the tribe of Benjamin, there was a rich and influential man, named Kish, the son of Abiel. Abiel was the son of Zeror, Zeror was the son of Becorath, and Becorath was the son of Aphiah— of the tribe of Benjamin.
\v 2 Kish had a son named Saul. Saul was a young man who was very handsome and had a body taller than the average height of Israelites who in general only came to Saul's shoulders.
\v 3 One day several donkeys owned by Kish, Saul's father, disappeared. Kish said to Saul, "Take a servant with you to go and find those donkeys."
\v 4 Then Saul along with his servant searched Mount Ephraim, via the area of Shalishah, through the area of Shaalim and looked in the district of Benjamin, but they didn't find those donkeys.
\v 5 When they arrived in Zuph, Saul said to his servant, "Lets go home before my father stops worrying about those donkeys and begins to worry about us!"
\v 6 The servant answered, "Oh yes! I suddenly remembered that in this city their is a servant of God. He is very respected because everything he says truly happens. Let's go meet him, perhaps he can give directions to us where those donkeys are."
\v 7 Then Saul said to that servant of his, "Good, lets go meet that servant of God. But we don't have anything to bring as a gift for us to give him. Our food is already gone."
\v 8 That servant answered Saul, "I have a silver coin.\f + \fr 9:8 \fk coin … \ft Literally, 'a quarter shekel'. That is the same as about 3 grams of silver.\f* We can give it to that servant of God so that he tells us where we have to go."
\v 9 At that time there was a usual custom in Israel, if a person wanted to know the will of God, he would say, "Come, let's go to see the seer." Because prophets at that time were usually referred to as seers.
\v 10 Saul said to his servant, "Good! Let us go." So they went to the city where the servant of God lived.
\v 11 When they walked nearly to the city, they met with several young women who were coming out to the well to draw water. They said to the young women, "Is the seer here?"
\v 12 The young women answered, "Yes, he is here. He just came to take part in offering sacrifice for the people at the altar on the hill today.
\v 13 You can meet him when you all enter into the city, before he climbs the hill to eat. The attendees won't begin the ceremony before he arrives, because the servant of the LORD must bless the burnt sacrifice first. After that, the attendees may eat. Go now, because this is the time you can meet him!"
\v 14 When Saul and his servant were entering the gate of that city, they met with Samuel who was walking toward the hill.
\v 15 The day before Saul came, the LORD had told Samuel,
\v 16 "Tomorrow around this time, I will send to you a young man from the land of Benjamin. You have to anoint him to become king over My people Israel. He will save My people from the hands of the Philistines. Because I've paid attention to and have compassion on My people. Their cries have already come to Me!"
\v 17 When Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said to him, "This is the man that I told you! He will rule over My people."
\v 18 When Saul approached Samuel in the middle of the gate, he asked Samuel, "Father, can you tell me where the room of the seer is?"
\v 19 Samuel answered Saul, "I am that seer! Go before me to the hill! Today you will eat with me. Tomorrow morning I will answer all of your questions, then permit you to go.
\v 20 Don't worry about your donkeys that disappeared three days ago, because they have been found. But you and your family are the core of the hope of all the Israelites."
\v 21 But Saul answered, "I just come from the tribe of Benjamin, the smallest tribe among all the tribes of Israel, and my family is the least valued in the tribe of Benjamin. Why does father speak like that to me?"
\v 22 Then Samuel invited Saul and his servant to a room and gave them the most important place in front of all of the attendees, who were about thirty attendees that were in that place.
\v 23 Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion of meat that I asked you to set aside."
\v 24 So the cook brought it and placed the choice meat from the thigh portion in front of Saul. Samuel said to Saul, "This portion was set apart especially for you for this meeting. Eat with all of the other guests." So Saul ate with Samuel on that day.
\v 25 After that they returned to Samuel's house in the city, Samuel and Saul chatted on top of his house.\f + \fr 9:25 \fk top of his house \ft At that time, the shape of the roofs of houses were flat and could be used to chat or sleep.\f*
\v 26 The next day, Samuel awakened Saul who was sleeping on top of the house, "Wake up, so that I may take you home." So Saul got up, and went outside with Samuel.
\v 27 While they were walking to the edge of the city, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell your servant to go ahead first." Then Saul ordered his servant to leave earlier. Then Samuel said to Saul, "Remain here with me, because I want to convey a message from God to you."