\c 15
\s1 Erasing debts in the Sabbath Year\x + \xo 15:1 \xt Lev. 25:1-6\x*
\p
\v 1 “At the end of every seventh year, all of the people of Israel must erase all the debts of their fellow Israelites.
\v 2 The way to do this is every one of you who has loaned money to other Israelites must erase the debt of that person. You must do that because the LORD has stated it must be so.
\v 3 You may still collect debts of the sojourners who live with you. Only the debts of other Israelites must be erased in the seventh year.
\p
\v 4-5 “The LORD your God will bless you in the land that He gives to you. If you obey the commands of the LORD your God as I have conveyed to you today, then there will be no poor people among you.
\v 6 The LORD your God will surely bless you in accord with what He has promised, so that you will lend money to other nations. But you will never borrow money from them. You will conquer those nations, but they will never conquer you.
\p
\v 7 “Later when you live in the land that the LORD your God gave, and in one the cities there is a fellow Israelite who is poor, don’t ignore him and be stingy towards him.
\v 8 Instead, be generous and lend to him to meet his needs.
\v 9 Be sure not to keep evil thoughts like this in your heart, ‘The Year of Sabbath when all debts are erased is near, so if I lend something to my fellowman who is poor, he will not pay his debt.’ Don’t be suspicious of your fellowman like that so that you don’t help him. Your fellowman might tell the LORD of his troubles, and the LORD will consider that you have sinned against him!
\v 10 Give him a loan with a generous heart, because in that way the LORD your God will bless you in whatever you do and work on.
\v 11 Poor people will always be in your land. That is why I command you: You must accept your poor and needy fellowmen with open hands.”
\s The rule about freeing slaves from the people of Israel
\p
\v 12 “If there is among your fellow Israelites— either a man or a woman— who sells himself as a slave to you, you must free him after he works for you for six years. In the seventh year, you must release him.
\v 13 And when you release him, don’t let him go without bringing anything.
\v 14 You must give him abundantly from your earnings— including from your livestock, harvest produce, and vineyard produce. As the LORD your God has blessed you, so you also must give to him.
\v 15 Remember that you yourselves also lived as slaves in Egypt, and the LORD your God has redeemed you. That is why I give this command to you.
\v 16 “But if your slave loves you and your family, and feels fortunate to live with you, then he can say to you, ‘I don’t want to leave you, Master.’
\v 17 If your male or female slave says something like that, then bring him to the door of your house, and while he is standing and leaning on the door of that house, make a hole in his ear lobe using a sharp piercing tool. This signifies that he will be your slave his whole life until the day of his death.
\p
\v 18 “Don’t complain if you have to free your slave who is a fellow Israelite. Remember that he already served you for a full six years, and the benefit of his service was far more than double the fruit of the labor of a paid employee for the same period of time. And by obeying this rule, the LORD your God will bless you in all that you do.”
\s1 The rule about sacrificing firstborn animals
\p
\v 19-20 After you conquer the land of Canaan and the LORD your God has shown the place to worship Him there, every firstborn male from among your livestock must be offered to the LORD. Do this once a year in that place of worship, where you and your family will enjoy the meat of those sacrifices.
\p Don’t put the firstborn male cow to work. And don’t cut and sell the fur of a forstborn male sheep.
\p
\v 21 “But if the first born of an animal is defective— including being lame, blind, or having other serious defect, that animal cannot be offered to the LORD your God.
\v 22 You may cut and eat the meat of that animal in your house like eating the meat of deer or the meat of a gazelle. Everyone may eat, both those whose actions are clean and those who still live uncleanly.
\v 23 You just need to always remember that you cannot eat the blood. Because the blood must be poured out on the ground when you kill that animal.”