\c 20
\s1 Provisions that are in effect when warring
\p
\v 1 "When you go to war against the enemy and see horses and horse carts along with enemy troops that are far more than [you all], don't be afraid! Know that the LORD God who brought you out of Egypt is with you all.
\v 2 Before advancing in war, a priest must stand in front of you all and say,
\v 3 'Listen, O Israelites, today you all will fight against the enemy. Don't be discouraged. Don't be daunted, afraid or even panic about them, 
\v 4 Because the LORD God will be with you all. He will oppose your enemies and give you the victory over them.'
\p
\v 5 "Then the heads of the troops will say to your troops, 'If any of you all just built a house and haven't yet surrendered it to God, he may go home. Don't let him die in war and another person surrender the house to God and then possess that house. 
\v 6 If any of you planted a vineyard and have not yet harvested it, he may go home. Don't let him die in war and another person enjoy the wine from the produce of his garden.
\v 7 If any of you is engaged to a woman and not yet married, he may go home. Don't let him die in war and another person marry that woman.
\p
\v 8 "Then all of the heads of troops will also say, 'If any of you are afraid or daunted, he may go home. Don't let him influence other troops to be afraid.'
\v 9 After speaking with their troops, the heads of the troops must appoint commanders over their troops.
\p
\v 10 "When you attack a city that is far from your district, tell the residents of that city beforehand that if they surrender, you won't attack them.
\v 11 If the city's residents agree to surrender and open the gate of the city, then they will become your slaves.
\v 12 But if they don't want to surrender, and even war against you, then surround that city and break through, entering inside.
\v 13 When the LORD our God enables you to conquer that city, you must kill all of the males of that city.
\v 14 But you may take the women, children, animals and whatever is in that city for yourselves. Enjoy all of your enemy's possessions because the LORD God has given them all to you.
\p
\v 15 "You must treat the cities that are far from your district like that.
\v 16 But for the cities that are in the district that the LORD God gives to you, you must kill everything that lives— both humans and animals. 
\v 17 You must destroy the Hittite nation, the Amorite nation, the Canaanite nation, the Perizzite nation, the Hivite nation and the Jebusite nation according to the LORD our God's command.
\v 18 If you don't destroy them, they will persuade you all to do disgusting things that they do when worshiping their false gods, so that you sin toward the LORD our God.
\p
\v 19 "When you all try to conquer a city and surround it for a long time, don't cut down the fruit trees that are outside of the city. You may eat the fruit, but don't cut them down because those trees aren't your enemy.
\v 20 You may cut down trees that don't produce food and use that wood to make ladders and other tools of war that can help you break through the city wall and conquer that city."