\c 5
\s1 Disaster on the Philistines nation because snatch Chest of Promise
\p
\v 1 After the nation of the Philistines snatched LORD's Chest of Promise, they brought it from the bettlefield in the City of Ebenezer to  the city of Ashdod.
\v 2 They brought the Chest into the house temple of their god  which is named Dagon, and put it next to statue of Dagon.
\v 3 However the next morning, when the residents of the City of Ashdod entered into the temple, they found the statue of the god Dagon had fallen down with its face facing to the ground in front of LORD's Chest of Promise. Then they lifted the statue of Dagon and returned it to the place it was before.
\v 4 And the next day, the statue of Dagon had returned to lying on the ground in front of Chest. However this time, the head and two hands of the statue of Dagon had loose  from its body and were on the door lintel of the temple. Only its body was before LORD's Chest of Promise.
\v 5 That's why, until this day, teh priest of Dagon or his worshipers taht enters inside of the Dagon's temple in Ashdod is forbidden to step on the door lintel.
\b
\p
\v 6 The LORD gave harsh punishment to the residents of  Ashdod and the surrounding region. He made them suffer greatly, strucking disease that caused protuberance \f + \fr 5:6 \fk tumors \ft The word translated as ‘protuberance’ can also be translated ‘absess’, ‘hemorrhoid’, or, tumor’. In the Septuagint there is an addition in this verse not written in the Masoretic Text, “And rats proliferate in  their land, and death along with destruction struck the whole city.”\f* on their bodies.
\v 7 When the residents of Ashdod saw what happened, they said, "The chest of the god of Israel's can not remain here! The god of Israel is giving punishment that is heavy on us and our god, Dagon!"
\v 8 Then the residents of Ashdod sent a message to the fifth kings of the nation of the Philistines to gather, and demand form them saying,  "You must do something with the god of Israel's chest"
\p After the leaders discuss the situation, they decided, "Let's move the chest to Gath." Then they moved it to Gath.
\v 9 But arriving in Gath, the LORD also punish the City of Gath with disease that same, so that the resident  panic.
\b
\p
\v 10 Then it was decided again to move LORD's Chest of Promise to Ekron. But arriving there, the residents of the city protested and shout, "if the chest of the god of Israel stay here, it can kill us!"
\v 11 Then the populations of Ekron demand that the fifth kings of the Philistines gather again. then the residents said, "Take the chest the god of the Israel people out of here! Return it to its former place. If you don’t, we all will die killed by their god.” They said that because God had beaten up the city with a very heavy punishment.
\v 12 There were those who had already died, and those who still lived were attacked by the tumors. Cries of the residents of that city to their gods reached to the sky.