31
\s Jacob fled from his uncle Laban
\p
\v 1 One day, Jacob got news that all of the sons of Laban were grumbling against him by saying to one another, “Jacob has taken our father's wealth. He got all of his riches from our father.”
\v 2 Jacob also had observed that Laban's attitude toward him wasn't as it had been before.
\p
\v 3 Then the LORD said to Jacob, “Return to the land of your forefathers, and to your relatives. I will be with you.”
\s1
\p
\v 4 After that, Jacob ordered a person to call his two wives— that is Rachel and Leah, to meet him in the field, the place where he was herding his goats and sheep.
\v 5 When Rachel and Leah came, Jacob said to them, "I have observed that your father's attitude has now changed toward me. But God who is worshiped by my father, Isaac, is still with me.
\v 6 You yourselves know that I have worked as hard as I can for your father.
\v 7 And I should have received wages according to my hard work. However, he has deceived me by changing my wages ten times. Even so, God didn't allow him to do evil to me.
\v 8 The proof is, when your father said, "If these goats give birth to their children with speckled feathers, then you may take it as your reward." Then he also said, "If these goats give birth to their children with striped feathers, you may take them as your reward." And the goats gave birth to their children with striped feathers.
\v 9 God has taken your fathers' livestock and given them to me.
\v 10 When the mating season arrives, I dream. And in that dream I saw that male goats mate with female goats, bristled, striped and speckled.
\v 11 In the dream the angel of God called me, he said, "Jacob!" I replied, "O Lord, I am here!"
\v 12 Then the angel delivered the words of the LORD to me, "Look and note that all the male goats who marry this herd of females have speckled, striped, and striped feathers. I made everything like that because I've seen various ways Laban has tricked you.
\v 13 I am the God who appeared to you at Bethel — in the place where you set up a memorial stone, and poured oil on it, and promised Me. Now, get ready to go from this place and return to the land of your birth. "
\p v 14-15 After hearing stories from Jacob, Rachel and Leah said to her, "We know that you have worked for our father for years - as a fee to get us your wife. But we don't get the inheritance of the slightest we get from the results of your hard work, because he has spent it all. In fact, he treats us like strangers.
\v 16 All the wealth that God has given you is ours and that of our children. So, do it according to what God has commanded you. "
\p
\v 17-19 Not long afterwards, when Laban and his workers and all of his relatives had gone to the fields to cut the fur of their sheep, Rahel stole the protective statues of his father's family. Jacob is getting ready to leave with his wives and children riding a camel. He told his children and slaves to bring all the livestock and the property he had obtained while working in Padan Aram, heading to the land of Canaan - to the place of his father, Isak.
\v 20 Jacob deceived Laban — the Aramean, secretly running without telling him.
\v 21 He took all his wealth and crossed the Euphrates River to the hills of Gilead.
\s Laban chases Jacob
\p
\v 22 Three days later, a person told Laban that Jacob had run away.
\v 23 On hearing that news, Laban immediately took his company, that is all of his brothers to chase Jacob. After traveling seven days, they finally met Jacob close to the hills of Gilead.
\v 24-25 When Laban found them, Jacob had placed his tents in those hills. So, Laban and his company pitched their tents close to Jacob's place. That night when Laban was sleeping, God came to him in a dream and said, "Pay attention! Tomorrow when you meet Jacob, don't say anything to him in anger."
\p
\v 26 The next day when Laban met with Jacob, he said, "What is this that you've done! You have deceived me by taking away my daughters like captives of war.
\v 27 Why have you deceived me by running away secretly? If you had just told me, then I would have allowed your departure with gladness. I would have accompanied your departure with singing accompanied by the tambourine and harp.
\v 28 I in fact didn't have the opportunity to kiss my daughters [and//with] expressing have a safe trip to them. Your actions were very stupid!
\v 29 I have the power to harm, however God whom your father worships warned me not to threaten or even express a promise to you.
\v 30 And now you have decided to go with the excuse that you miss your father. But why did you also steal my idols?"
\p
\v 31 Then Jacob answered, "Because I was afraid Uncle would try hard to restrain your daughters in a forceful way, so I wouldn't be able to take them away.
\v 32 But regarding Uncle's idols, whoever is later known to (have) stolen them, let him die! With our brothers witnessing, Uncle may examine for yourself whether those idols are among our baggage. If they are, you may take them." Jacob spoke like that because he didn't know that Rachel was the one who had stolen the idols.
\p
\v 33 So Laban began looking for the idols that were worshiped by him. He looked for the idols in Jacob's tent, then in Leah's tent and continued in Zilpah and Bilhah's tent, but he didn't find those idols. Then he entered Rachel's tent.
\v 34 At that time, Rachel had already hidden those idols in her camel saddle and sat on top of the saddle. So the moment Laban searched in her tent, he didn't find anything.
\v 35 The moment Laban was busy examining Rachel's tent, Rachel said to her father, "Father, I apologize to Father, but don't be mad at me because I can't stand up from my seat to welcome father. If father intends to search my seat, I have to stay seated here because I'm menstruating." So Laban couldn't continue his intention to search that seat. Then Laban returned to search for the idols carefully in all of the tents but he didn't find them either.
\p
\v 36 So Jacob was mad and quarreled with Laban, saying, "What is my error and sin that Uncle chased me like chasing a criminal?!
\v 37 Uncle has rummaged all of our stuff! Have you found your stuff, Uncle?! If so show it here in front of your brothers and my brothers, so they are the ones to decide which of us two is right!
\p
\v 38 Twenty years long I've lived with Uncle and worked hard raising Uncle's goats and sheep so they remained healthy and birthed many young. And I never at all ate the meat of Uncle's flocks.
\v 39 In fact those that died torn apart because they became pray to wild animals, I never have brought to Uncle. But Uncle always demanded I replace them, for every animal that was lost in the day or even in the night.
\v 40 My skin blistered because of the heat of the day, and at night I felt cold, along with almost not having time to sleep.
\v 41 That's what Uncle did to me for twenty years living in Uncle's house. I worked like a slave— fourteen years to get Uncle's two daughters, and six years to get flocks as my wages. But as long as this Uncle has changed my wages up to ten times.
\v 42 If the God of my ancestors— that is the God who was worshiped by Abraham and Isaac, wasn't with me, then certainly Uncle would have ordered me to go empty handed! But God saw that I have worked hard and Uncle kept making me suffer. That's why last night He rebuked Uncle and showed that Uncle is wrong!"
\s Jacob and Laban make a peace promise
\p
\v 43 So Laban answered Jacob, "These two women are my children, and the children they birthed are my grandchildren, and these flocks are mine. Everything you see is mine. It's impossible that I would harm my children and grandchildren!
\v 44 Because of that, let's make a promise as a reminder that you and I have made peace.
\p
\v 45 Then Jacob took a stone and raised it as a memorial monument.
\v 46 Jacob also asked his brothers to gather several stones. Then they just took those stones and layered them to form a pile. After that they ate near that pile of stones.
\v 47 Laban named the pile of stones Jegar-sahadutha,\f + \fr 31:47 \fk Yegar-sahaduta \ft Laban named the pile of stones in the Aramaic language "Jegar-sahaduta" which means "pile to remind us." \f* but Jacob named it Galeed.\f + \fr 31:47 \fk Galed \ft Jacob named that pile of stones "Galeed" in the Hebrew language which means "pile to remind us." \f*
\p
\v 48 Then Laban said to Jacob, "Today, in accordance with the name you gave— that is Galeed, then let this monument to remind of the promise become a witness between you and me.
\v 49 This reminder monument is also called Mizpah, meaning the LORD will watch what you and I do when we separate.
\v 50 If you hurt my children or take other women as your wives other than these two, then remember that God will become a witness of that action."
\v 51 Then he said again to Jacob, "Notice this pile of stones and monument that we raised, I place between you and me.
\v 52 I will remember that I can't pass this pile of stones and monument with the purpose of doing evil to you. Likewise also the reverse, you can't pass this to do evil to me.
\v 53 May God whom Abraham worshiped and the God\f + \fr 31:53 \fk Allah According to Hebrew grammar, Laban thought that the true God was worshiped by Abraham and the false god who was worshiped by Nahor had the same status as dieties. In this situation, the TSI shows that Laban's opinion was wrong by capitalizing god of Nahor. See the note about this in NET.\f* who was worshiped by Nahor and the God of their father become a judge between us." Then Jacob promised in the name of the God whmo his father Isaac worshiped.
\v 54 Then Jacob gave a sacrificial offering on that hill and called all of his brothers to eat together. Then they ate and spent the night there.
\v 55 The next day— early in the morning, Laban woke and gave farewell kisses to his grandchildren and children along with blessing them. After that, Laban left and returned to his place of origin.