\c 17
\s Paul and Silas in the city of Thessalonica
\p
\v 1 After that, Paul and Silas went to the city of Thessalonica by passing through the cities of Amphipolis and Apollonia. There was a Jewish synagogue in that city already.
\v 2 So Paul went to the synagogue as usual, and he discussed the Holy Bible with the Jews for three Sabbath Days in a row.
\v 3 Based on the writings of the prophets, he explained and proved that the Christ had to suffer, then die, and then come back to life after death. Paul confirmed that, “Jesus, whom I’m telling you about, is the Christ\f + \fr 17:3 \fk Christ \ft See the footnote in Acts 2:36.\f* who was promised.”
\v 4 Then some of them believed and joined with Paul and Silas, including a large number of Greek people who had already become worshipers of God before this, and also many prominent women.
\p
\v 5 But when the other Jews saw this, they got jealous. So they got some evil men together who were always loitering in the marketplace. And they caused a big riot in the city with that mob. Then they attacked Jason’s house in order to find Paul and Silas, intending to drag them before the crowd.
\v 6 But when they didn’t find the two apostles, they dragged Jason and some other brothers in the faith before the city officials. They shouted, “The infamous people who’ve caused disturbances all over the world have come here now too,
\v 7 and Jason has received them at his house. They do things that are against the commands of our king in Rome because they say that there’s another king whose name is Jesus.”
\p
\v 8 When the crowd and the city officials heard their words, they became so angry that there was a riot.
\v 9 So the city officials forced Jason and the believers to pay a fine to guarantee that this kind of riot wouldn’t happen again. After that, they were released.
\s Paul and Silas go to Berea
\p
\v 10 Then that night, the brothers and sisters in the faith who were there quickly sent Paul and Silas to the city of Berea. After arriving there, they went to the Jewish synagogue.
\v 11 The people of Berea were more open to new knowledge than the people of Thessalonica. They were happy to hear the teaching of Paul and Silas, and they examined the Holy Bible every day to prove if what Paul and Silas said was true.
\v 12 Because of this, many of them became believers, including Greeks who had previously become worshipers of God, and several prominent women, as well as many men.
\v 13 But when the Jews in Thessalonica heard that Paul was telling the Word of God in Berea too, they went there to stir up a crowd to create another riot.
\v 14 Because of that, the brothers and sisters in the faith who were there quickly sent Paul to the coastal region. But Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea.
\v 15 Then those who escorted Paul took him as far as the city of Athens. After that, they returned to Berea bringing a message from Paul for Silas and Timothy that the two of them should come to him quickly.
\s Paul in Athens
\p
\v 16 While Paul was waiting for Silas and Timothy to come, he became very upset because he saw that the city of Athens was full of idols.
\v 17 Because of that, he often went to the Jewish synagogue and talked about Jesus with the Jews, and also with non-Jews who had become worshipers of God. And he went to the marketplace everyday too, and spoke about Jesus with whomever he met.
\v 18 Then some expert philosophers\f + \fr 17:18 \fk philosopher \ft A person who has much knowledge about ideas that are considered true by the secular world. For example, the movement of followers of Epicurus emphasized enjoying everything that makes one happy. They didn’t believe that the gods (or God) would punish evil after man died. Whereas the movement of Stoics, (the followers of Zeno), emphasized living right and doing good deeds. They taught that every person should control himself.\f* from the Epicurean and Stoic movements began to debate with Paul. There were some of them who said, “This loudmouth’s teaching doesn’t make sense.” And others said, “It seems like he’s talking about foreign gods.” They said that because Paul was proclaiming news about Jesus, especially about His coming back to life after death.
\v 19 Then they brought him to the meeting of expert philosophers which was held at the council place of the city officials called the Council of Areopagus.\f + \fr 17:19 \fk Council of Areopagus \ft consisted of a group of leaders in Athens who functioned as judges.\f* And there they said, “Please explain to us this new teaching that you’re telling.
\v 20 We hear that you’re telling a new and strange teaching, so we want to know more about the meaning of that teaching.”
\v 21 (They spoke like that because the city of Athens was known as a city where the residents and all new-comers were busy just talking about or listening to the latest ideas.)
\p
\v 22 So Paul stood up before the Council of Areopagus and said “People of Athens, I can see clearly that you really are religious people.
\v 23 For as I was walking around the city, I noticed that you have many places to worship gods. I also saw a writing on one of the altars: ‘Sacrifices to yet unknown god.’ Let me introduce to you the One whom you worship, whom you don’t know yet!
\p
\v 24 “He’s the God who created this world with everything in it, and He’s the Lord who has power over the sky and the earth. So He doesn’t live in houses of worship that are built by humans.
\v 25 He doesn’t need man’s help, because He’s the one who gives life, breath and everything else to us.
\v 26 God created every ethnic group that lives on this earth beginning with one man. And He’s the one who determines when each people group advances to become a kingdom or falls, and He also determines the borders of their region of authority.
\v 27 God’s purpose in everything He does is that we’ll try to search for Him, with the hope that we’ll find Him, even though He isn’t actually far from any of us.
\v 28 So as it’s often said, ‘We can live, move and breathe only because of His power’. And several poems created by native sons of this region say, ‘We’re all His children.’
\p
\v 29 “So because we’re ‘His children,’ let’s not think that God is something that we humans can imagine or make from gold, silver or stone according to our skill.
\v 30 In times past, God didn’t mind if people didn’t know Him and didn’t know how to worship Him. But now He commands each person everywhere to repent and worship Him alone.
\v 31 For God has determined a day when He’ll judge everyone with justice. That judgment will be accomplished by one Man who has been appointed by Him. And God has proven this to everyone by bringing that Man back to life after death.”
\p
\v 32 When the people heard Paul say that there was a Man who had been brought back to life after death, some of them laughed at Paul. But others said, “We want to listen to you speak about this again.”
\v 33 So Paul left them.
\v 34 But there were some of them who believed in Jesus and associated with Paul. Included among them were Dionysius, who was a member of the Council of Areopagus, a woman named Damaris and several other people too.