\c 2
\s The other apostles acknowledge Paul as an apostle
\p
\v 1 After fourteen years, I went to Jerusalem again with Barnabas. Titus went with us too.
\v 2 I went there because God directly told me to meet with the most prominent people from the church there. At that time, I had the opportunity to explain, in a personal way, about the Good News that I had told people who aren’t Jewish. I did that because I didn’t want all of my work to be considered useless, first of all in the Lord’s sight, but also in the sight of man.
\p
\v 3 But even though Titus, who accompanied me, was non-Jewish, they didn’t order him to be circumcised.
\v 4 That happened because several Jewish people had pretended to be fellow followers of Christ and entered the Lord’s churches secretly, with the intent of spying on us. They wanted to spy on our freedom from Jewish religious rules which we have because of oneness with Christ Jesus. They wanted to enslave us to be bound again to various rules and to the Law.
\v 5 But we didn’t give in and follow their influence in the least bit. For we want to maintain the true teaching that’s found in the Good News about Christ, so that you can keep believing what we've taught you.
\p
\v 6 Then those who were considered to be the most prominent didn’t suggest any addition at all to the Good News that I proclaim. (But I actually don’t care about a person’s status, whether they’re prominent or not. And of course God isn’t partial to anyone.)
\v 7 In the end, those men realized that the ministry God gave to me was different from what God gave to Peter, specifically that God had given a special task to me to tell the Good News to people who aren’t Jewish,\f + \fr 2:7 \fk people who aren’t Jewish \ft Literally, “people who aren’t circumcised.” And “Jews,” literally, “people who are circumcised.”\f* whereas Peter was given the task of telling the Good News to the Jews.
\v 8 For we all are aware that God who gave Peter the special ability to be an apostle\f + \fr 2:8 \fk apostle \ft The root meaning of ‘apostle’ is ‘herald/announcer’ and ‘representative’.\f* to the Jewish people, clearly also gave the same ability to me to be an apostle to people who aren’t Jewish.
\v 9 So when James, Peter and John, who were included in that group of prominent men, realized that this special task was given to me based on God’s kindness, they shook hands with Barnabas and I in agreement, “May you serve the people who aren’t Jews, and we’ll keep serving the people who are Jews.”
\v 10 The one and only request that they made of us was that we remember our poor brothers and sisters in Jerusalem who need help. And from the beginning, I have always been ready to help them.
\s Paul rebukes Peter
\p
\v 11 But when Peter visited Antioch, I felt it necessary to rebuke him directly because his behavior was wrong.
\v 12 This is what happened: At the beginning of his visit to Antioch, he ate with people who weren’t Jewish. Then when a group sent by James arrived, Peter separated himself and distanced himself from the non-Jewish people. He did that because he didn’t want to offend the feelings of the Jewish group that I mentioned came, because they were the ones who represented the group who insist on circumcising all of our brothers who aren’t Jewish.
\v 13 Then some other Jews followed Peter’s way of just pretending to be good. They also stopped eating with the people who weren’t Jews who were present there, and even Barnabas was influenced.
\v 14 So when I saw that their attitude wasn’t in agreement with the true teaching in the Good News about Christ, I directly rebuked Peter before them all, like this, “Even though you are a Jew, just recently you behaved like a non-Jew when you associated with them. So it isn’t proper for you to associate with that group now who want to force non-Jews to live according to Jewish rules!”
\s Jews and non-Jews are saved only through fully believing in Christ
\p
\v 15 Now I'm speaking to our \f + \fr 2:15-21 \fk our (inclusive) \ft The Greek language doesn’t distinguish between ‘our’ inclusive and ‘our’ exclusive, so there are those who interpret that Paul’s words to Peter ended with the last word in verse 14 or verse 16 or verse 21. It's likely that verses 15-21 are still like what Paul told Peter and all of the people in that meeting.\f* brothers and sisters who like me, were born Jewish. Of course we have followed the tradition of the Jews by calling people who aren’t Jews ‘sinners’ because they don’t obey the Law.
\v 16 But now, we know that no man can be made right before God by obeying the Law. The only way to be made right before God is by believing in Christ Jesus, both for non-Jews and for Jews! So we who are Jews are clearly ‘sinners’ also, but now we have fully believed in Christ Jesus to be made right before God. No one can be made right before God by obeying the Law, because no one is able to obey the whole Law.
\p
\v 17 But there are Jews who fully believe in Christ, who still don’t understand the way we’re made right before God, which is only through oneness with Christ. For them, if we no longer depend on the Law to become right before God, we’ve become ‘sinners’. That’s definitely wrong! Becoming a follower of Christ does not at all mean that we’ve become ‘sinners’!
\v 18 For in the past we taught, “Let’s become right in God’s sight by depending on Christ.” If we now teach, “Turn away from Christ and depend on the Law again,” it’s very obvious that we are ‘sinners’!\f + \fr 2:18 \fk verse 18 \ft In this verse Paul uses the illustration of a building to symbolize a religious system, and uses ‘I’ (in Greek) hypothetically as an example. Paul wrote more literally, “For if I start to rebuild what I’ve torn down in the past, then I’m obviously a law breaker.”\f*
\v 19 And this is what I’ve experienced, when I tried in my own strength to obey the whole Law, I finally realized that I’m not able to do it and would die in my sin. But it was precisely in giving up that I realized the gift of God through, which is eternal life. Now I consider that I’ve been crucified with Christ.
\v 20 That means that I don’t control my life anymore, but Christ who lives in me does. I live my whole life in this earthly body based only on faith in the Son of God, who loved me so much that He gave Himself to redeem me.
\v 21 So I don’t want to turn away from God’s kindness, which we receive because of oneness with Christ, in order to return to trying to be made right before God based on the Law. For if we think that a person can be made right by obeying the Law, then Christ died to redeem us for no reason.