\c 9
\s1 The reason the LORD made them win
\p
\v 1 “O people of Israel, listen to me! Today you are ready to cross the Jordan River to drive away nations greater and stronger than you. Their cities are large and have high walls of defenase that reach to the sky.
\v 2 The people are giants— they are the descendants of the Anakim. You have heard people say this about them, ‘Who is able to fight against the Anakim?!’
\v 3 So, today you must know that it is the LORD your God who will go ahead of you to attack your enemies. He will act like a fire that burns to destroy them. The LORD will make them powerless to attack you. You will drive them away, and seize their land like He promised you.
\p
\v 4 “After the LORD your God drives them away from before your, do not say in your heart, ‘The LORD gave this land to me because I live righteously in His eyes.’ Actually the LORD drives away those nations from before you because of their wickedness.
\v 5 So, it is not because you live righteously or have righteous hearts that the LORD gives this nation to you. The LORD drives them away because of their wickedness, and He intends to fulfill His promise that He made to our ancestors— Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
\v 6 Realize that it is not because you deserve it that the LORD your God gives this good land to you to rule. Actually, you are hard-headed people!”
\s1 Moses reminds about the Israelites’ rebellion
\p
\v 7 “Remember and don’t forget how you repeatedly made the LORD your God angry in the wilderness. You've rebelled against the LORD since you left Egypt, rebelled as long as you were in the wilderness, and continue to rebel up to this point.
\v 8 Remember when at Mount Sinai, you made the LORD so angry that He was going to destroy you.
\v 9 That time the LORD told me to climb up Mount Sinai to receive two stone tablets that symbolize the covenant\f + \fr 9:9 symbolize the covenant\fk \ft It is often said that the two stone tablets were written with the Ten Commandments. But here the Hebrew language uses the words ‘luhot habberit’ (tablets of the covenant). This shows that the Ten Commandments carved on the two tablets of stone were the greatest conditions of the official covenant that God made with the nation of Israel.\f* that the LORD made with us. So I stayed there without eating and drinking for forty days and forty nights.
\v 10 The LORD gave me two stone tablets that were written with His own finger. He wrote on the stones all the commandments that He had expressed to us from the midst of fire on that mountain where we gathered.
\p
\v 11 “The LORD gave the two stone tablets on the last day of the period of forty days and forty nights. Both of those stone tablets are symbols of the covenant that He made with us.
\v 12 Then He said to me, ‘Rise up and go down quickly from here because the nation that you led out of Egypt has commited a terrible sin! They are worshiping the statue of a calf that they made from gold. How fast they turn away from the path that I commanded!’
\p
\v 13 “And the LORD said to me again, ‘I’ve paid attention to this nation and they are truly a hard-headed nation!
\v 14 For that reason, don’t try to stop Me! I will destroy them so that no one remembers their names on this earth. Then I will make you into an ancestor of a nation that will be more numerous and stronger than them.’
\p
\v 15 “So I turned my body around and descended the mountain, bringing the stone two tablets that symbolized the LORD’s covenant with us. At that time the fire was still burning on that mountain.
\v 16 Then I saw that you had already committed a great sin towards the LORD our God. You already made a statue of a calf from gold. You turned away so quickly from the path that the LORD commanded!
\v 17 So in front of your eyes I lifted up the two stone tablets and threw them to the ground so that they broke into many pieces.
\p
\v 18 “Then I left to be alone and bowed down before the LORD for forty days and forty nights— like I had done before. I did not eat and drink during those period. I did that because you had already commited a great evil toward the LORD that caused Him to be angry.
\v 19 I was very afraid because the LORD was very angry at you, so that He wanted to destroy all of you. But even this time He listened to my prayers.
\v 20 The LORD was also very angry at Aaron so that He was ready to destroy him, but at the same time I also prayed for him.
\v 21 Then, I threw the calf statue— the thing that resulted from your sinful deeds— into the fire until it melted. After that, I destroyed it until it was fine like dust and threw the dust into the river that flowed from that mountain.
\p
\v 22 “You also made the LORD very angry in Taberah, at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah.
\v 23 When the LORD ordered you leave Kadesh-barnea by saying, ‘Go and conquer the land that I will give to you, you rebelled against the LORD God, refusing to believe, and didn't obey Him.
\v 24 You've frequently rebelled against the LORD ever since I've knowm you.
\p
\v 25 “So for forty days and forty nights I knelt with my face to the ground— pleading before the LORD, because He had said that He would destroy you.
\v 26 I prayed to the LORD saying, “O LORD, my Lord, don’t destroy your people. They are Your possession, whom You rescued and freed from Egypt with Your great power.
\v 27 Remember the covenant that You made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But don’t remember that this nation is so hard-headed repeatedly doing evil and committing sin.
\v 28 If You destroy them, then the Egyptians will say that You were unable to bring them to the land that You promised would be given to them, and that You brought them to the wilderness just to kill them there, because You hate them.
\v 29 Remember that they are Your people— Your possession. You already brought them out of Egypt with Your great power.”