\c 3
\p
\v 1-2 When the three of us \f + \fr 3:1 \fk the three of us \ft Literally, “we.” From Acts 17 we know that at that time Paul was with Timothy and Silas.\f*could no longer wait to visit you again, we finally decided to send Timothy, our brother in the faith, back to you. (He works together with us to serve God in telling the Good News about Christ.) While the two of us remained in the city of Athens, he was the one who would encourage you and urge you to continue to fully believe in Jesus.
\v 3 We sent him because we didn’t want any of you to give up because of the trouble and persecution that we are now experiencing. For you yourselves know that God is actually the one who allows us to experience those difficult situations.
\v 4 For we had already told you that when we were with you. And of course you still remember that soon after that we actually were persecuted.
\v 5 So because I felt that I couldn’t stand to go without news from you any longer, I quickly sent Timothy to you so that I could hear if each of you still continue to fully believe in Jesus. I didn’t want the devil, the Tempter, to try to tempt you so that all of our hard work among you would be for nothing.
\p
\v 6 But now Timothy has returned bringing very pleasing news that you still fully believe in Christ and continue to love each other. He told us that you always remember us and have compassion for us, and that you long to meet us again, just like we also long to meet with you.
\v 7 So Brothers and sisters, in all of the suffering and troubles that we are experiencing, we now feel comforted because we know that you still hold on to your faith in Jesus.
\v 8 Now our lives are truly refreshed again because you still remain firmly one with the Lord.
\v 9 We’re truly very thankful to God for you! In fact when we pray to Him and pray for you, our hearts are always filled with joy.
\v 10 We sincerely pray day and night that we may see you again, and that we may teach the things you need so that your faith keeps getting stronger.
\p
\v 11 Our hope and prayer is that God the Father and our Lord Jesus open the way for us to see you again.
\v 12 And our prayer is that the Lord Jesus will make your love grow more and more among your brothers and sisters in the faith and for all people. So I pray that God works in your hearts just as He has engraved your names on our hearts.
\v 13 And also we ask our Lord Jesus to encourage your hearts so that you become holy and without stains or wrong before God our Father on the day when Jesus comes back with all the people He has purified.