\c 26
\s1 Harvest offerings
\p
\v 1 Furthermore, Moses taught the people of Israel, "After you have occupied the land that the LORD God is giving as your possession from generation to generation,
\v 2 every year each of you shall take a portion of every kind of first produce in the land, put it in baskets, and bring it to the tabernacle of the LORD in the place which He will determine.
\v 3 Say to the priest who is on duty at the time, 'With this offering, I declare to the LORD God that I have entered the land that He promised our fathers to give to us.'
\v 4-10 Then you must declare, 'O LORD, my ancestor Jacob was a traveler from the land of Syria. He and his family went to Egypt and settled there as immigrants. They were few in number when they went to Egypt, but there they became a great, strong, and numerous people. When the Egyptians oppressed and forced the descendants of Jacob to become slaves until they were miserable, they cried out to You, O LORD God. You also heard their cries and saw how they suffered, worked hard, and were oppressed. So with Your power and might, You performed miracles so that the Egyptians were very afraid, and You brought us, Your people, out of Egypt. Then you brought us to this land and gave us this very fertile land. So now, O LORD, I am bringing the first produce that You have given me.' Then the priest will take the basket from your hand and place it in front of the altar of the burnt offering of the LORD. Leave the basket before the LORD God and worship Him there.
\v 11 Then hold a feast to rejoice in all the blessings that the LORD God has given you and your family. Also invite the immigrants and the Levites who live in your city."
\s1 The tithe
\p
\v 12 “Give one-tenth of your crops to the LORD every year. But every third year,\f + \fr 26:12 \fk third year \ft See footnote to Deut. 14:28\f* the tithe will be collected in your respective cities, for the Levites, immigrants, orphans, and widows, so that they may have enough food.
\v 13 Then that year, when you come to the tabernacle of the LORD, pray, 'O LORD my God, according to Your command I have given all the tithe that I dedicated to You to the Levites, immigrants, orphans, and widows. There is nothing left over of the tithe that I have kept in my house. I have not broken and I have not forgotten a single commandment.
\v 14 I have not eaten from the tithe at a time of mourning. I didn't touch it when it was unclean. And I didn't dedicate a portion of it to the spirits of the dead. I have obeyed You, O LORD, and have done these things according to Your commandments to me.
\v 15 Look from Your abode in the highest level of heaven and bless Your people, the nation of Israel. Bless also this rich and fertile land, which you have given us according to your covenant with our ancestors.’"
\s1 A people belonging to the LORD
\p
\v 16 Then Moses said to the people of Israel, "The commandment of the LORD God to you today is to obey all these rules and regulations that I teach. Do it all with all your heart and all the breath of your life.
\v 17-18 Today each of you have declared that the LORD is your God. You have promised to live according to His will and obey all His statutes, commandments, and regulations. And based on your promise, the LORD has also confirmed that all of you are a special people belonging to Him, according to his promise to us.
\v 19 In this way He will make our nation the most praiseworthy and honorable above all other nations which He has established. And according to His promise, the LORD your God will set you apart as a people sanctified by Him."