\c 4
\s1 Overcome resistance to the building of the fortress of Jerusalem
\p
\v 1 When Sanballat heard that we, the Jews, had started rebuilding the city fortress, he got angry and started to insult us.
\v 2 In front of his friends and the army of Samaria he said, “Oh, dear! These wretched Jews are shameless. How could they rebuild the city fortress ?! They thought, by offering a sacrifice, the fort would be finished in a day?! Their city is just ashes, it can't be rebuilt! "
\v 3 Tobiah the Ammonite, who was standing beside him, also said, "Yes! Their work is lousy, if just stepped on by a dog the fort will collapse! "
\v 4 Then I prayed, “Listen, O God, how they have mocked us. We ask you to repay them according to their humiliation, and make them prisoners in a foreign land like we did.
\v 5 Do not forgive their mistakes, do not take away their sins, for they have provoked Your anger by insulting those who built the fortress of Jerusalem."
\v 6 We remained determined and worked hard to build the fortress of the city of Jerusalem, so that at that time the fort was successfully rebuilt to half its original height.
\v 7 But when Sanballat, Tobiah, and a number of people from the Arabs, the Ammonites, and the city of Ashdod heard that the work was going on and the number of holes in the walls of the fort had decreased, they were very angry.
\v 8 They all conspired to attack the residents of Jerusalem and cause chaos there.
\v 9 So we prayed for God’s help and arranged our shifts to guard the city all day, day and night.
\v 10 Then the people of Judah began to complain, “There are so many ruins to clean up, while the workers are tired. We will not be able to finish building the fort."
\v 11 Meanwhile, our enemies were planning to attack us suddenly and kill us so that the construction would stop.
\v 12 The Jews who lived near the residence of the enemy heard of this plan, then warned us over and over again, "They will attack you from all directions!"
\v 13 So I put the men on guard inside the fort, which is behind the lowest wall of the fort. Those are the parts that are less secure because the fort is still open. They were assigned to their respective family groups, armed with swords, spears and arrows.
\v 14 In this dire situation, I encouraged the nobles, leaders and the people by saying, “Don't be afraid of our enemies! Remember, we have God, the Great and mighty Ruler. So, let's fight for our families, our children and wives, and for the place we live in! ”
\p
\v 15 When the enemy heard that we knew their plan and God had thwarted it, things became safer so that we could all resume building the fort.
\v 16 But since then, we have divided the work, some people do the building, and some keep watch with spears, shields, arrows, and wearing armor. The leaders also stood guard behind the people of Judah.
\v 17 ...
\v 18 because each one wore a sword on his waist. A trumpeter was always near me to sound the trumpet as a sign of danger.
\v 19 I explained to the nobles, leaders, and all the people, “This work is very large and extensive, our group is far apart from each other around the fort.
\v 20 If you hear the sound of the trumpet, it means there is an enemy attack, immediately gather towards the source of the sound of the trumpet. God will help us to fight! "
\p
\v 21 This is how we work every day, from the time the sun does not rise until the sun sets. Some of the people repaired the fort, and some of them kept guard with weapons.
\v 22 I also gave orders to all those living outside the fort to stay overnight in the city of Jerusalem with their men. That way they can watch at night as well as work during the day.
\v 23 During that time, we were always on standby so that we never had time to take off our work clothes, including myself, my brothers, as well as the servants and guards who were with me. We carried weapons all the time, even when we were fetching drinking water.