\c 31
\s The death of Saul
\p
\v 1 Meanwhile, the Philistines attacked the Israeli army on Mount Gilboa. Many Israeli soldiers were forced to flee, and many others were killed in the fighting.
\v 2 The Philistine armies surrounded Saul and three of his sons. First they killed Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malkisua.
\v 3 Saul himself was in the midst of an increasingly violent battle. The Philistine archers saw him, and he was badly injured by their arrows.
\p
\v 4 Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Kill me with your sword! If not, then these idol worshipers will come stabbing and tormenting me!”
\p But his armor bearer refused to do so because he was very afraid. Finally, Saul took his sword and threw himself on the tip of his own sword.
\v 5 When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on the tip of his own sword and died with Saul.
\v 6 So Saul, along with three of his sons, were his armor bearers, and nearly all of his army died on the same day.
\p
\v 7 When the Israelites who were across the Jisreel valley and across the Jordan River heard that the last remaining army of Israel had fled, and that Saul and his three sons were dead, they left their cities and fled. Soon the Philistines came and occupied the cities.
\p
\v 8 But the next day from the battle, when the Philistine army came to retrieve all the items from the corpses of the slain Israelite army, they found Saul and his three sons lying dead on Mount Gilboa.
\v 9 They cut off Saul's head and took all his armor and armor. After this they sent people to announce the news in the temples of their gods and among the people throughout the Philistine region.
\v 10 They put Saul's armor and armor at the temple of Ashtoreth and hung his body on the walls of the fortress of the city of Beth Shan.
\p
\v 11 When the inhabitants of the city of Jabez in Gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
\v 12 then the mighty men of the city immediately took action. They walked all night to Beth-Shan, took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the fortress walls of the city, brought them back to Jabesh, and burned them there.
\v 13 Then they took all his bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree of their city. After that, they fasted for seven days.