\c 3
\s1 [The Israelites defeated King Og//Moses recounts the defeat of King Og]
\p
\v 1 After that we turned towards the area of Bashan. Then King Og with all of his troops came out and attacked us in Edrei.
\v 2 But the LORD said to me, ‘Don’t be afraid of him, because I have already surrendered him and all his citizens to you, including his country. You will attack him as how you attacked Sihon, the king of the Amorites who formerly ruled in Heshbon.’
\v 3 “Thus the LORD our God handed over the king of Bashan named Og and all of his troops, and we attacked them until they all died.
\v 4 At that time we captured all of the cities that were ruled by King Og, that is all of Argob territory. In total there were sixty cities, and there is not even one city that we did not capture from them.
\v 5 All of those cities were fortified with high walls and with gates that were closed using bars. Aside from that, there were also many small cities that were not walled.
\v 6 We destroyed all of those cities and killed all of the inhabitants, as we did to King Sihon.
\v 7 But we took all of the livestock and plunder from those cities.
\v 8 “So we had captured from those two kings of the Amorites the area on the east side of the Jordan River, beginning from the Arnon River up to Mount Hermon.
\v 9 (Mount Hermon is called Sirion by the Sidonians, and Senir by the Amorites.)
\v 10 We had captured all the cities ruled by King Og, that is all of the cities in the highlands, the regions of Gilead and Bashan, up to the cities of Salacah and Edrei on the east side.
\v 11 (King Og was the last giant of the Refaim tribe. His bed \f + \fr 1:11 \fk bed \ft In other version's translations several [translators//authors] have the opinion that the word ‘eres’ (in the Hebrew language) means sarcofagus (coffin). [Apparently//but???] Moses wrote down the measurements of this huge bed in order to document the fact that God gave victory to the Israelites over giants that they truly feared. Most translators don't agree with the possibility the bed was decorated with iron because at that time iron was a noble metal.\f* was made of iron with a length of four meters and a width of two meters. The bed is still today in the City of Rabbah in the territory of the Amonites.)
\s The allocation of land on the east side of the Jordan River
\p
\v 12 When we captured this country, I gave the tribes of Reuben and Gad the territory from the city of Aroer, which is in the valley of the Arnon River, and half of the Gilead hills along with their cities.
\v 13 The entire Argob territory— that is the remainder of the Gilead area and the entire Bashan area, the former kingdom of Og— I surrendered to half of the tribe of Manasseh. (The land of Bashan is known as the land of the Refaim.)
\v 14 The entire Argob territory— from Bashan to the border with Geshur and Maacah territories— was taken by Jair of the tribe of Manasseh. Then he named the territory Jair, like his own name, so that until today the entire Argob territory is known as Jair territory.
\v 15 Next, I handed the area north of the Gilead territory to the Machir clan, of the tribe of Manasseh.
\v 16 I also gave part of the Gilead territory to the tribes of Reuben and Gad. The width of that territory is from the middle part of the Arnon River on the south side, and to the north up to the Jabbok River, which borders with the Ammonites.
\v 17 This territory is bordered by the Jordan River on the west side, Lake Galilee on the north side, the Dead Sea on the south side, and the foot of Mount Pisgah on the eastside.
\v 18 “At that time I said to you tribes of Reuben and Gad, ‘The LORD our God is giving this country to you for you to possess, but you must also fight for your brothers. So now your soldiers must cross the Jordan River with weapons ahead of the other tribes of Israel.
\v 19 Only your wives, your children, and your livestock— and I know you have much livestock— may live in the cities that I have handed over to you
\v 20 until the LORD gives rest from war to your brothers, as He has already given to you. When they also occupy the land that will be given to them by the LORD our God across the Jordan River, only then can you return to each of your lands that I have already given to you.
\v 21 “At that time I will give this command to Joshua, ‘You've already seen with your own eyes, what has been done by the LORD, our God to the kings Sihon and Og. The LORD will do the same to all of the kingdoms where you are going.’
\v 22 So, I say to all of you, do not be afraid of them, because the LORD your God will fight for each of you.”
\p Moses is forbidden to enter Canaan
\p
\v 23 “ At that time I pled for the LORD’s mercy,
\v 24 ‘O LORD our Lord, I know that Your great and powerful actions which You showed to me Your servant are only the beginning! Surely there are no other gods in heaven or on earth that can do great things like You have done.
\v 25 So please permit me to cross the Jordan River so that I can see the beautiful country on the other side of the Jordan River, and that beautiful hill area, and the mountains in Lebanon over there.’
\v 26 But because of your (pl) deeds the LORD was angry with me and said, ‘Enough! Don’t talk to Me again about this thing!
\v 27 You may not cross the Jordan River! But climb up to the peak of Mount Pisgah and gaze to the west, north, south, and east to see the country from afar with your own eyes.
\v 28 Before that, appoint Joshua as your successor, and encourage him so that he will be brave and firm to lead this nation. For he is the one who will lead them to cross the Jordan River, so that they can rule over the land that you will see from the peak of that mountain.’
\v 29 So we stayed at the Jordan River Valley across from the City of Beth-Peor, at the foot of Mount Pisgah.