\c 4
\s The way to live that is pleasing to God
\p
\v 1 So Brothers and sisters, because we are one with the Lord Jesus, we really urge each of you once again, like we’ve previously taught you to live in a way that is pleasing to God. Of course you are living to please God, but we urge you to become more and more pleasing to Him.
\v 2 Surely you still remember the teaching that we told you as messengers of the Lord Jesus,
\v 3 which was that God wants you to live more and more holy and to distance yourselves from the sin of immorality.
\v 4 God also wants each of us to know how to control ourselves, especially controlling sexual desires so that we keep living in a holy and honorable way before all people.\f + \fr 4:4 \fk Ayat 4 \ft The words that are translated “ourselves” can also mean “his wife,” so that this verse can also be translated, “God also wants every husband to know how to live with his wife in a way that is holy and honorable before all people.”\f*
\v 5 So don’t allow your sexual desires to control you like the lifestyle of people who don’t know God.
\v 6 In regard to sexual lust, don’t do wrong to your brother in the faith! What I mean is, don’t let any brother in the faith commit adultery with the wife of another brother in the faith. For in the past we taught you clearly that the Lord will punish everyone who is immoral like that.
\v 7 For God called us to live holy, not to live immorally.
\v 8 So whoever rejects this teaching doesn’t reject man, but rejects God who gives us His Spirit which is holy.
\p
\v 9 Regarding loving our brothers and sisters in the faith, we obviously don’t need to urge you any more, because God Himself has already taught you how to love each other.
\v 10 This is what you are obviously doing for the brothers and sisters in the faith in all of Macedonia. Even so Brothers and sisters, we urge you to love each other even more.
\p
\v 11 Try to live calmly and don’t get involved in other people’s affairs. Work diligently to meet your daily needs, like we’ve already taught you.
\v 12 If all of you live like that, and no longer need to depend on other people, then each of you will be a good testimony to people who don’t yet know Christ.
\s The coming of the Lord Jesus
\p
\v 13 Brothers and sisters, don’t let there be anyone who doesn't know the answer to this question, “What happens to our brothers and sisters in the faith who have died?” For we don’t want you to mourn like other people who don’t yet have hope that there is life again after death.
\v 14 For we if believe that Jesus has died and has come back to life, then we also have to believe that when the Lord Jesus comes again, God will bring all of our brothers and sisters in the faith who have died back to this earth.
\p
\v 15 We're giving this message directly from the Lord Jesus Himself. When the Lord returns, we, along with all the believers who are still alive, won’t meet the Lord before the believers who have died.
\v 16 For at the moment the Lord Himself descends from heaven together with the angels, He will command with a loud voice that everyone who has died come back to life. Then the leader of the angels will cry out with a loud voice, and a heavenly trumpet sound will be heard. Then everyone who has died in oneness with Christ will come back to life first.
\v 17 Then those we who are still alive at that time will be taken up together with them into the clouds in heaven to meet the Lord. Then we will live with the Lord forever.
\v 18 So you should motivate and comfort each other with this teaching.