\c 8
\s1 The people of Israel must remember what the LORD did for them
\p
\v 1 “You must faithfully obey all of the commands I give to you today. If you do them, then you will live long, your descendants will increase in number, and you will enter and rule the land that has been promised by the LORD to our ancestors.
\v 2 Remember how the LORD your God led you along the journey in the wilderness for forty years. Through all of that He intended to humble you and test each of you so that He could know what was in your hearts. He wanted to know whether you would stay obedient to His commands or not.
\v 3 So the LORD humbled your hearts by letting you be hungry and then giving you 'manna'— bread that neither we or our ancestors had ever eaten before. He did this to teach you that humans live not just by relying on food, but by relying on every word of the LORD.
\v 4 Your clothes did not wore out and your feet did not swell even though you walked in the wilderness for forty years.
\v 5 Pay attention to how the LORD your God taught you. He taught us like a father teaches his children.
\v 6 “So, obey the commands of the LORD your God! Live according to His will along with fearing and respecting Him.
\v 7 He is bringing you to a fertile land, where rivers, ponds, and springs are abundant, and the water flows from hills into valleys.
\v 8 That land is also rich with fig trees and pomegranate trees, and produces wheat, barley, grapes, olives, and honey.
\v 9 That land is abundant with food. All your needs will be met. The land there contains iron ore, and you can mine copper from its hills.
\v 10 Later on there when you eat until you are full, may you praise the LORD your God because of all the prosperity that you enjoy in that land!
\v 11 “Be careful that you don’t forget the LORD your God by not obeying His commands, His rules, and His statutes that I'm conveying to you today.
\v 12 Because later in the Land of Canaan you will be satisfied with food, and you will be able to build and occupy good houses.
\v 13 The number of your livestock and sheep will increase, and you will also gather much gold, silver, and your other riches will also be many.
\v 14 But at that time, be careful that you don’t become arrogant and forget the LORD your God— who has freed you from slavery in Egypt!
\v 15 Don’t forget that He guided you on the journey through the vast and terrible wilderness. There were many poisonous snakes and scorpions. The land was very dry and there was no running water, but He made water flow from a really hard rock.
\v 16 Don’t forget that in the wilderness He gave manna to you— food that neither we nor our ancestors had ever eaten. In that way He tested us for our own good, because He wanted us to be humble.
\v 17 So, be careful so that you never think in your heart, “I have obtained all of this by my own strength and ability.”
\v 18 Always remember that your ability to become rich comes only from the LORD your God! In that way He is still faithful until today to fulfill His covenant which was validated with our ancestors.
\p
\v 19 “So today I'm giving this strong warning to everyone among us: If you forget the LORD your God by turning to false gods and bow down along with worshiping them, then you will surely be destroyed.
\v 20 Just like the LORD destroyed several other nations that were our enemies, in the same way you will also be destroyed if you refuse to obey the LORD your God!”