\c 8
\s1 The king sends out his decision to save the Jews
\p
\v 1 That day also, King Ahasuerus surrendered to Queen Esther all of the possessions of Haman— the great enemy of the Jews. Esther told the king that Mordecai was her cousin. When the king heard that, he ordered that Mordecai come before him.
\v 2 When Mordecai approached, the king released and gave the seal ring that previously had been give to Haman, to Mordecai. Esther raised up Mordecai to manage all of Haman's possessions.
\v 3 After that Esther approached the king again. While crying, she bowed and begged the king to cancel the evil plan to kill all of the Jews that Haman had made.
\v 4 The king stretched out his golden scepter to Esther, so Esther got up and said,
\v 5 “If Your Majesty is pleased and considers it right, and your servant has the favor of the king, your servant asks to put out a letter of order to rescind and cancel the letter of order of Haman— that is the death sentence for all descendants of Jews, in every province of the kingdom of your Majesty.
\v 6 Your servant cannot bear to see her whole people and relatives killed.“
\p
\v 7 King Ahasuerus answered Queen Esther and Mordecai, “Because Haman already endeavored to get rid of all of the Jewish people, I already gave to you, Esther, all of Haman's possessions, and I ordered the soldiers to put to death Haman by hanging.
\v 8 So now write a letter to save your people. Include your name in those letters, and use my seal ring to legalize that letter of decision, because letters that are already affixed with my name and sealed cannot ever be changed.”
\p
\v 9 So on that day too— that is on the date of 23 Siwa,\f + \fr 8:9 \fk the date of 23 Siwa \ft That date is according to the Jewish calendar, and is estimated as June 25 in the modern calendar.\f* the King called the secretaries, and Mordecai ordered them to write a letter to every Jewish citizen and to all the governors in the whole territory of King Ahasuerus — from India in the eastern district to Ethiopia in the western district. The secretaries wrote all the letters in the language and lettering used in each district. They even wrote the letters that were directed to the Jewish people in the Jewish language.
\v 10-11 Those letters were written and endorsed in the name of King Ahasuerus, and sealed wiht the king’s ring, to send by using horses of the kingdom that could run quickly. The content of these letters was the king’s permission to the Jews in every city to unite and defend themselves. who permitted the Jewish people in each city to join together and defend themselves. They were also permitted to kill the soldiers or anyone who attacked, they also were permitted to take the possessions and kill the women and children of the attackers.
\v 12-14 After this the couriers immediately delivered the letters throughout the corners of the kingdom and used the king’s horses that could run quickly. Copies of that letter of order went out as laws and were announced in every province to be known, so that the Jews would be ready to oppose their enemies on day 13 of the month of Adar, that is the day that had been set by Haman to kill the Jews. Copies of that same letter were also read to the citizens of the kingdom’s capital city.
\p
\v 15 Mordecai then left the palace, wearing grand clothing given by the king colored blue and white. He also wore a purple robe made from fine linen, and a golden crown that was very beautiful. The citizens of the capital city of Susa shouted full of joy when they heard the new laws.
\v 16 All of the Jews in Susa were no longer afraid, instead they rejoiced and showed their feeling of pride.
\v 17 That also happened in every city and province. The Jews were rejoicing and made parties when the laws just mentioned were announced. Some other people even claimed to be Jews,\f + \fr 8:17 \fk claimed to be Jews \ft Literally, ‘became Jews’. It is likely that many people pretended to be people with Jewish background. See the footnote in the NET.\f* because they were afraid of what would befall them if they didn't do that.