\c 3
\s Jesus will certainly return
\p
\v 1 Brothers and sisters whom I love, this is the second letter that I’ve written to you. Through these two letters I’m trying to help you to think honestly and remind you
\v 2 about the news that was given by the prophets who were sent by God. And I also want to remind you about what was commanded by our Lord and Savior, which was delivered to you by all of us who were sent by Him.\f + \fr 3:2 \fk all of us who were sent by Him \ft Literally, “your apostles” can also be translated based on a broader meaning of ‘apostle’, which is “Christ’s messengers who gave the news to you.”\f*
\p
\v 3 And this is what’s so important for you, in the last days people will appear who’ll enjoy making fun of and laugh at true teaching. They’re people who like to follow their various desires.
\v 4 They’ll say, “Christ has promised to return. Where is He? Our forefathers have died, but everything continues on the same as usual since creation.”
\v 5 By saying that they intentionally forget the evidence that by God’s word alone the sky and earth were created and the land was gathered together in the middle of water. And the water became a tool used by the Lord.
\v 6 Then by using water again, God destroyed the first earth with a huge flood.
\v 7 But God is ready to use His words again like that in a dreadful way! That is He’ll invoke punishment on the present sky and earth by using fire, which on the Day of Judgment will destroy everyone who opposes Him.
\p
\v 8 So Brothers and sisters whom I love, don’t forget this. The way the Lord counts time and the way humans do aren’t the same. A thousand years for the Lord is the same as one day for humans, and vice versa, one day for the Lord is the same as a thousand years for humans.
\v 9 Don’t be influenced by people who say, “The Lord obviously keeps delaying to fulfill His promise! And why hasn’t Jesus come back before now?” The right answer for everyone who talks like that is that the Lord is patient with you because He doesn’t want you to be destroyed too. The Lord is still giving an opportunity to everyone to repent.
\p
\v 10 But the day that the Lord Jesus returns will be like a thief who comes when unexpected. He’ll come suddenly. The great sky and earth will disappear, the things in the sky will be burned and the earth and everything else are also prepared for the Judgment Day when none of people’s deeds will be hidden.
\v 11 So if everything will be destroyed and revealed like that, we certainly must try to live more and more holy according to God’s will!
\v 12 While we’re waiting for the time which was determined by God, we should work hard so that even more people will be ready to meet the Lord. Even though the sky will be destroyed by fire and everything in the heavens will melt because of the heat,
\v 13 we don’t need to be afraid. For according to the promise of God we’re waiting for the new heaven and new earth which will become the place for all of us to live who’ve been made right by God.
\p
\v 14 So Brothers and sisters whom I love, because we’re waiting for those things, let’s try as hard as possible to live without sin, without stain and be ready to meet the Lord.\f + \fr 3:14 \fk be ready to meet the Lord \ft Literally, “in peace.” This is translated according to the interpretation that it means, “already in the state of peace with the Lord.”\f*
\v 15 And we should consider each day as proof of the Lord’s patience, in which He gives more opportunities to many people to enjoy the various blessings of salvation. Our beloved brother Paul also wrote like this to you, according to the wisdom given to him by the Lord.
\v 16 In all of his letters he talked about these things. And there are also some things in his letters that are difficult to understand. The difficult parts are wrongly interpreted by people who haven’t yet studied them in depth and who like to change what they believe in. Then they teach the things they misunderstand to others, like they do with other parts of the Holy Bible. As a result, they’re the ones who bring destruction on themselves.
\p
\v 17 So beloved Brothers and sisters, because you already know that you should be careful! Don’t get trapped too in the mistakes of people who don’t live according to the Lord’s Word so that you no longer completely believe the true teaching which you previously held onto firmly.
\v 18 But you should each be more mature and aware of God’s kindness to you and know our Lord and Savior Christ Jesus more and more. I pray that He alone will be glorified, both now and forever. Amen.