\c 6
\s United with Christ in His death and resurrection
\p
\v 1 So how should we think about God’s kindness to us? Can we keep on committing sin so that God’s kindness to us increases more and more?
\v 2 We can’t think like that! Spiritually we’ve already died with Christ. That means that we’ve been freed from sin’s power. We certainly can’t keep living in sin like before we knew Christ!
\v 3 Let's not forget that we were all united spiritually with the death of Christ Jesus when we were baptized.
\v 4 I mean that at the time we were baptized, it was as if we died and were buried with Christ. And when God used His glorious power to bring Jesus back to life, we were also brought back to a new life.
\p
\v 5 So if we’ve been united spiritually with Christ in His death, it means that we've also taken part in being brought back to life and will live with Him.
\v 6 We know that our old lives were crucified with Christ. That was part of God’s plan so that our bodies are no longer enslaved by the power of sin.
\v 7 That release happens because we become like dead people, who are no longer tempted and have been freed from the power of sin.
\p
\v 8 If we’ve died with Christ, it’s clear that we’ll live with Him.
\v 9 For if Christ was brought back to life from death, He’ll definitely never die again. Death has no power over Him anymore.
\v 10 It means that when Christ died once, that was enough to defeat the power of sin forever. Now He has a new life, and because He lives as one with God it’s impossible for Him to die again.
\v 11 It’s the same for us too. We consider ourselves dead to sin and united with Christ Jesus so that we live for God alone.
\p
\v 12 So we must not let sin control our bodies any longer. For we only use our bodies for a short time, then we die. So let’s not follow our evil bodily desires.
\v 13 And let’s not surrender the members of our bodies to become instruments for doing evil. But let’s give up our whole lives to live for God! For in the past we were dead spiritually, but now our spirits have been brought back to life. So let’s use the members of our bodies as instruments to do God’s will!
\v 14 For the power of sin no longer controls our lives, because we’ve already died to all the old obligations, including all the rules in the Law. Now we’re obligated to live as people who are thankful, because God’s kindness has been given to us.
\s We people who are owned by the Lord must live to please Him
\p
\v 15 Of course some people will ask, “If God is kind to us and if we aren’t obligated to live according to the Law anymore, does that mean we can just keep sinning?” Absolutely not!
\v 16 You certainly know that if you surrender yourself to do the will of another person, you have become his servant. Similarly if you commit sin, you become a slave to that sin which entraps you to death. Or you can give yourself to be God’s servant, and as a result you obey and have a good relationship with Him.
\v 17 Praise the Lord, we no longer are slaves to sin! But with all our hearts we’ve obeyed the teaching that we’ve received from God,
\v 18 so that we are freed from sin’s power and now live as God’s servants who want to live right in His eyes with all our hearts.
\v 19 These examples that I've given are very simple, because it’s difficult for us as humans who have many weaknesses to understand this spiritual principle. In the past, we surrendered the members of our bodies to be slaves of sin and evil, so we lived only for evil. But it’s the opposite now. We have to surrender ourselves to become God’s servants who always try to do what’s right according to His will. Now we live only for God.
\p
\v 20 We were slaves of sin in the past, and almost never thought of living right.
\v 21 Living like that only made us ashamed. And the result of living like that was spiritual death.
\v 22 But now we’ve been freed from the power of sin to become God’s servants. That means we live as people whom He has made holy, and that will produce eternal life.
\v 23 For sin entraps us to spiritual death. But if we’re one with our Lord Christ Jesus, then God will always be kind to us and will give us eternal life!