\c 36
\p
\v 1 "The Lord gave ability and wisdom to Bezalel, Aholiab, and all of the other expert craftsmen to do all of the work in building the LORD’s Tent. They have to do it according to the LORD's orders."
\p
\v 2 So Moses called Bezalel and Aholiab, along with all each of the craftsmen whom were given expertise by the LORD and whose hearts were moved to do that work,
\v 3 and they received from Moses all of the offerings that were given by the Israelites to build the LORD’s Tent. But after that the Israelites kept bringing freewill offerings to Moses everyday.
\v 4 So all of the expert craftsmen who were working to make the LORD’s Tent left their work and came to Moses.
\v 5 They said, "The people brought way more than is needed for the work that the LORD ordered!"
\p
\v 6 So Moses announced to the whole encampment, "Don't let anyone, either woman or man, bring other offerings for the work of building the LORD’s Tent." So the people didn't bring any more offerings,
\v 7 because all of the materials to build the tent had been gathered and even more.
\s Building the Holy Tent
\p
\v 8 Then the skilled people among the craftsmen built the LORD’s Tent with ten curtain sheets. the curtains were made of fine linen cloth with pictures of winged creatures embroidered with wool thread colored red, blue, and purple.
\v 9 Each curtain sheet measured exactly the same, that is 12 meters long and 2 meters wide.
\v 10-13 The ten sheets of cloth will be connected to become two sets which each will consist of five curtains. Each long side will have fifty clasp holes made from blue string, and each sheet will be attached to the next sheet with fifty clasps made from gold. So when the five sets are connected on their long sides, the set will be one with a length of 13 meters and width of 9 meters.
\p
\v 14 Then they made eleven curtain sheets of goat hair to cover the LORD’s Tent.
\v 15-18 Each sheet will measure the same, that is 14 meters long and 1 meter 80 centimeters wide. Each long side will have fifty clasp holes, which are connected to another sheet with fifty silver clasps. The eleven sheets will be connected to make two sets, one set made of five sheets, and another from six sheets.
\v 19 They also made a covering cloth of ram's skin that was colored red and on top ot that another cloth covering made from fine leather.
\p
\v 20 Then they made the frames of the LORD’s Tent from acacia wood.
\v 21 Each frames length was 4 meters and width was 66 sentimeters.
\v 22 Each frame had two bolts beneath it to stand up those frames.
\v 23 They made twenty frames on the south part of the tent,
\v 24 with forty bases of silver, two bases for each frame.
\v 25 They also made twenty frames for the north part of the tent,
\v 26 and forty bases of silver, two for each frame.
\v 27 For the back side of the tent, on the west side, they made six frames.
\v 28 They also made two farmes for the two corners on the backside of the tent.
\v 29 The two corner fames will be separated at the bottom part but connected at the top part with a bracelet. In that way the corner frames were made.
\v 30 All of it had eight frames for the west part of the LORD’s Tent, supported by sixteen bases from silver, two bases for each frame.
\v 31 Then they made cross bars from acacia wood and connected them across the frames, five cross bars for the north side of the LORD’s Tent,
\v 32 five cross bars for the south side, and five more for the back side of the tent that faced west.
\v 33 The middle cross bars were connected to the middle part of frames and crossed from one end to the other end.
\v 34 They covered the frames and cross bars with gold and made gold bracelets to support each cross bar.
\p
\v 35 To separate the inside of the LORD’s Tent, they wove curtains with a beautiful pattern, shaped like guard angels, from thread of red, blue, and purple.
\v 36 These curtains were hung with several gold hooks on four acacia wood posts covered with gold, on top of silver bases.
\v 37 They also wove a curtain with a beautiful pattern for the door of the LORD’s tent, from thread of red, blue, and purple.
\v 38 This curtain was hung with hooks from five acacia wood posts covered with gold, on top of five bronze posts.