\c 6
\s1 Loving the LORD is the foremost commandment
\p
\v 1 “The LORD our God ordered me to teach these various commands, statutes, regulations, and rules to you. Obey all of these in the land that you will enter and possess.
\v 2 You and your descendants must fear and respect the LORD our God as long as you live, and must obey all of His commandments, so that you may remain long in that land.
\v 3 Listen, O people of Israel, and obey all of this carefully, so that you will be successful, and your numbers will increase when you are already living in the land that is rich and fertile. Because that is the promise of our LORD— the God of our ancestors, to you.
\p
\v 4 “Hear, O people of Israel: the LORD our God is one.
\v 5 Love the LORD your God with all of your heart, all of your common sense, and in all that you do.
\v 6 Plant the commands that I convey to you today in your hearts.
\v 7 Teach these commands again repeatedly and at all times to your children— whether you are at home or when you are walking, whether resting or when working.
\v 8 Write these commands and tie them to your hands and on your foreheads so that you always remember His commands.\f + \fr 6:8 meaning of the commands in verse 8-9\ft What Moses intends in these two verses can be interpretted figuratively with a meaning like this: The LORD’s commands should always be thought about in your efforts (literally, ‘works of your hands’), in your views (literally, ‘in the middle of your eyes’), and be visible where you live. As a second interpretation, what Moses meant here can be interpretted as four examples of how to make various physical reminders to remember the LORD’s commands. Unfortunately, the Torah experts and the Pharisees during Jesus’ time interpreted these two verses only literally. That's why Jesus reprimanded them in Matthew 23:5)\f*
\v 9 Write these commands on the doorposts of your house and on the gates of your cities.
\p
\v 10 “The LORD your God will bring you into the land that He promised by swearing to our ancestors— Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. He will give you large and prosperous cities that you did not build,
\v 11 houses full of treasure that you did not buy, wells that you did not dig, and grape and olive gardens that you did not plant. After the LORD brings you into that land and you eat until you are full,
\v 12 be careful! Don’t forget the LORD, who has brought you out of slavery in Egypt.
\v 13 Fear and respect the LORD your God and be devoted only to Him. And when making official promises, validate them only by saying the name of the LORD.
\p
\v 14 “Don’t worship gods of other nations that live around you,
\v 15 because the LORD your God that lives in the midst of you, is a jealous God. If you worship false gods, He will be angry towards you and will destroy you from this earth.
\v 16 Don’t test the patience of the LORD your God, as your ancestors did when they camped in the Masah wilderness.
\v 17 Obey all of the commands, rules, and statutes of the LORD your God, which He has given to you.
\v 18-19 Do what is right and pleasing to the LORD so that you will be prosperous,. As He has already promised, He will drive away all of your enemies so that you can enter and occupy this fertile land which the LORD promised to our ancestors.
\p
\v 20 “In days to come, when your children ask, ‘What is the meaning of the rules, statutes, and laws that the LORD our God commands?’
\v 21 then answer like this, ‘Our ancestors were formerly slaves of the king of Egypt, but with His great power, the LORD brought them out of Egypt.
\v 22 They saw the LORD do many miracles that made the Egyptian inhabitants, the king and his officials suffer.
\v 23 And the LORD saved our ancestors from Egypt to bring them to enter and give this land to them— according to His official promise that He made with our ancestors.
\v 24 The LORD our God commanded us to always fear and respct Him, and obey all of these statutes, so that we always live prosperously and so that He takes care of our lives, like now.
\v 25 If we are obedient to all of the commands of the LORD our God, then we will remain right in His eyes.’”