\c 38
\s Making the altar of burned sacrifice
\p
\v 1 Then Bezalel made the altar of burned sacrifice from acacia wood. The altar was square shaped with the length of each side 2 meters and 30 centimeters, and the height 1 meter and 40 centimeters.
\v 2 He made four horns on the four corners of the altar so that the horns were one part with the altar. Then he covered the whole altar with bronze.
\v 3 Then he made utensils for the altar from bronze, that is ash boxes, shovels, basins, long fork, and place to bring charcoal.
\v 4 They also made thick holder with holes from bronze to hold the fire wood in the center of the altar. That holder was connected at mid-height of the altar.
\v 5 They made four bracelets and connected them to the four outside corners of the altar, as holes to insert the two carrying poles.
\v 6 The carrying poles were made from acacia wood and covered with bronze.
\v 7 Then he put the carrying poles into the bracelets on the sides of the altar so that the altar could be carried. The altar was shaped like an empty box that was open and made from boards.
\s Making the vessel of cleansing
\p
\v 8 Bazalel and the workers also made a vessel of cleansing with its pedestal from bronze. The bronze used for the vessel was from the bronze mirrors that were offered by the women who served receiving people who came to the entrance door of the Meeting Tent.
\s Building the fence around the courtyard of the LORD’s Tent
\p
\v 9 After that they made the courtyard and its fence with curtains that were made of fine woven linen cloth. On the south side, the curtains were the length of 46 meters.
\v 10 That curtain was hung on 20 posts that were connected on 20 bronze bases using hooks and connections of silver.
\v 11 In that way also on the north side, a curtain 46 meters in length was hung from 20 posts that were connected to 20 bronze bases using hooks and connections of silver.
\v 12 On the west side, a curtain of 23 meters in length was hung from ten posts that were connected to their ten bases using hooks and connections made of silver.
\v 13 On the east side, whose door faced the sunrise, that curtain was 23 meters in length.
\p
\v 14-15 The gate door of the courtyard was closed with two curtains. On the right side the curtain length was 6 meters 90 centimeters, hung on three posts that stood on three bases.
\v 16 All of the curtains that fenced the courtyard were made of fine linen.
\v 17 All of the bases for the posts were made from bronze, whereas the hooks and the connections were made of silver. The tops of the posts were covered with silver, and its connections were from silver.
\p
\v 18 On the east side, the curtain of the gate door was woven from linen thread of red, blue, and purple. The length was 9 meters 20 centimeters and the height was 2 meters 30 centimeters. The height was the same as the curtains around the courtyard.
\v 19 The curtain of the gate door hung from four posts that were place on four bases of bronze. Its hooks and connections were made of silver and the tops of the posts were covered with silver.
\v 20 All of the pegs of the LORD’s Tent and its courtyard were made of bronze.
\s1 The metal that was used to make the LORD’s Tent
\p
\v 21 All the kinds and weights of metals that were used in making the courtyard and the LORD’s Tent, where the Covenant Box is located, was written down by the secretaries from the tribe of Levi. They wrote all of this at Moses command, under the direction of Ithamar, Aaron's son.
\v 22 Bezalel, the son of Uri, grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah made all that the LORD ordered to Moses.
\v 23 Bezalel was helped by Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, an expert engraver, designer, and weaver with linen thread of red, blue, and purple.
\p
\v 24 All of the gold that was offered by the people of Israel for making the LORD’s Tent totaled 1000 kilograms. This was weighed according to the official measure of weight, that is the shekel that is saved in the LORD’s Tent.
\v 25 All of the silver that was surrendered by the people of Israel at the census time totaled 3,430 kilograms. This was weighed according to the official measure of weight, that is the shekel that is saved in the LORD’s Tent.
\v 26 All of the men who were 20 years old and above were counted in that census and each paid 6 grams of silver. This also was weighed according to the aforementioned official measure of weight. The total number of men who were listed was 603,550.
\v 27 Silver in the amount of 3,400 kilograms of silver was used to make 100 bases for the frames of the LORD’s Tent and for the special curtain posts. One base needed about 34 kilograms of silver.
\v 28 The remaining amount of silver, about 30 kilograms, was used to make the hooks and connections for the posts and to cover the tops of the posts with silver.
\v 29 The bronze that was offered by all of the people of Israel totalled 2,425 kilograms.
\v 30 That bronze was used to make the bases for the entrance door posts of the LORD’s Tent, and for the altar of burned sacrifice from bronze with the woven bronze wire and all of its utensils,
\v 31 the bases for the posts that held up the curtains around the courtyard of the Holy Tent and the courtyard gate, and all of the bolts for the tent and curtains around the courtyard.