\c 3
\s Knowing Christ is more meaningful than anything else
\p
\v 1 Finally, my Brothers and Sisters whom I love, rejoice because you’re one with the Lord! I’m not embarrassed to repeat what I’ve written before. In fact, I emphasize the matter of rejoicing so that you’ll be spiritually safe.
\p
\v 2 Watch out for false teachers! They’re like dogs! According to them, the Jewish custom of circumcision is the duty of every man. But they’re actually evil people who just want to cut the skin off your sexual organs!
\v 3 But we’ve received genuine circumcision— which is circumcision of the heart.\f + \fr 3:3 \fk circumcision of the heart \ft See Col. 2:11.\f* The proof is that we worship God through His Spirit and we’re only proud of what Christ Jesus did to save us. We don’t rely on ceremonies that are done by human hands on the bodies of men, or on other physical regulations.
\v 4 If those false teachers think they can rely on physical things like that, or on their status in the Jewish religion, then it’s even more proper for me to brag about things like that!
\v 5 I was circumcised when I was one week old.\f + \fr 3:5 \fk one week \ft Literally, “eight days,” If a baby boy was born on a Monday, then he was circumcised on the following Monday. In the way the Jews counted, the first day and the last day were counted. So in the example above, the first Monday was counted as day one, and the next Monday was counted as day eight.\f* I’m a descendant of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin. I’m a Hebrew and my parents were also Hebrews. I’m also a member of the Pharisee group, so it’s clear that I’ve really obeyed the whole Law.
\v 6 And I was so enthusiastic in fighting to maintain the Jewish religion that I persecuted the people who believed in Jesus. At that time, all the Jews witnessed that I lived right and without fault according to the Law.
\p
\v 7 Of course, I used to be proud and felt fortunate because of all that. But now I consider all of those things useless, because now I only brag about what Christ has done!
\v 8 Not only that— but I even consider everything meaningless when compared with what I have now, which is knowing my Lord Christ Jesus! Because of Christ, I now consider everything I used to brag about as having no meaning and just the same as garbage. Knowing Christ is far more meaningful!
\v 9 And I just want to remain joined as one with Him. The way I’m made right before God is not based my efforts to obey the Law. Instead I am made right in God’s sight only because of Christ! I fully believe in what Christ has done, and through that belief alone I am made right in God's sight.
\v 10 I just long to know Christ, and the power that raised Him from death. And I long to take part in suffering as part of serving Christ, just like He Himself suffered— to the point that I’m willing to die like He did.
\v 11 In that way, I really hope that I am worthy myself to take part in being made alive again after death.
\p
\v 12 I’m not saying that I’ve already reached my goal. I haven’t become perfect yet, but I keep trying to reach that goal, because that’s what Christ Jesus planned for me before He called me to become His own.
\v 13 Brothers and Sisters, I know that I haven’t reached that goal yet, but my eyes are only focused on reaching that goal: I forget everything that has already passed and try with all my strength to reach what’s ahead of me.
\v 14 Just as if I were running a race, my eyes keep focused on the goal— which is the victory prize that has been prepared for me in heaven! And of course we who’re one with Christ Jesus have been called by God to reach that heavenly goal.
\v 15 So all of us who have become mature spiritually should have the same direction and goal that I do. And if any of you don’t agree with this teaching, God will give you understanding, and lead all of you to the right way.
\v 16 What’s important is that none of us fall back from the level of spiritual maturity that we’ve reached.
\p
\v 17 So Brothers and Sisters, may each of you follow my example. Pay attention to, and imitate everyone whose life is like our example.
\v 18 I’m saying this because there’s something that really saddens my heart. As I’ve said to you many times, I remind you once more that there are many people now who claim they’re followers of Christ, but their lives are in direct opposition to what Christ did through His cross!
\v 19 That way of life will bring them to destruction. They only think about worldly things and don’t serve God. They just live to satisfy their own desires, and they do all kinds of things that are shameful. In fact, they’re proud of all those things.
\v 20 But we’ve become citizens of heaven! And we really long for the moment our Lord and Savior, Christ Jesus will come back from there.
\v 21 By using His awesome power, He’ll change these lowly bodies of ours to become like His glorious body. That awesome power of His is the power that He keeps using to subject everything under His rule.